0	Representatives-elect are invited to join in the Pledge of Allegiance. The CLERK led the Pledge of Allegiance as follows: I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
1	Before proceeding further, the Chair would like to clarify that as part of the Clerk's role during the organization of the House, under clause 2(a) of rule II, as incorporated into the general parliamentary law, the Clerk has the responsibility to preserve order and decorum in the Chamber prior to the election of a Speaker. To that end, the Chair would like to remind Members-elect of the following: Members-elect should address any remarks through the Chair and not to other Members-elect in the second person. Members-elect should refrain from engaging in personalities toward other Members- elect. The Chair appreciates the cooperation of Members-elect in respecting and upholding order and decorum in the House.
2	I rise to nominate Kevin McCarthy for Speaker of the House. Mr. Speaker, there has been a lot of talk about history over the last few days. 1856 was the last time it took longer than 9 votes to find a Speaker of the House. It took 133 votes over 2 months. Without question, the issues that divide us today are much less severe than they were in 1856. In fact, there is far more that unites us than divides us, regardless of our political party or ideology. The issues today are over a few rules and personalities, while the issues at that time were about slavery and whether the value of a man who looks like me was 60 percent or 100 percent of a human being. It was a long, drawn-out, painful process, but it needed to happen. In the end, Nathaniel Banks won by the slimmest of margins. But the margins don't matter when your policies are on the right side of history. On that day, long ago, the good guys won. On that day, long ago, the abolitionists won. On that day, the people who believed in freedom and self-determination won. The leading Republican nominee won then, and the leading Republican nominee will win again today. Since then, our Nation has made a lot of progress. That includes families like mine. My family has gone from slave to the floor of the United States House of Representatives, being the first Member of his freshman class to speak. In a series of five generations, my family has gone from slave to right here since 1856. My father and mother were born in the 1940s and 1950s in the Jim Crow South, and my dad lived directly across the street from a school he couldn't go to because he was Black. He started a business with one truck, one trailer, no excuses, with the help of his wife, and now his son stands here on the precipice of taking back the majority for the American people and taking this Nation in the right direction. I am a freshman. I have only been here a couple of days, but I have heard a lot of D.C. politicians tell me about how broken D.C. is. I don't need D.C. politicians to tell me how broken D.C. is. The American people have already told us how broken D.C. is by giving the Republicans the majority so we can fix this mess. We will counter the socialist movement of envy and confiscation with a conservative movement of access and opportunity. We will stand on the right side of history again. We will end the growth of government, and we will stop 87,000 new IRS agents from picking through your pocketbooks. We will secure our energy independence. We will ban the sale of petroleum from our strategic reserves to China. We will establish a bipartisan select committee specifically to keep our eye on the ball in China. We will address the crisis at the border that is killing Americans by the day and improve both our safety in our Nation and our dignity for those who come here in search of a better life. But not yet. We are still stuck at the starting block. The American people have told us, by putting a Republican majority here, that they want Republicans to lead, and they want a government that works and doesn't embarrass them. We are failing on both missions, and that must change today. Benjamin Franklin said: We must hang together, or we will, most assuredly, hang separately. We are stuck in a malaise, at an impasse, and we will stay here and not be able to fight the real conservative fight until we find a way to come together and fight that mission together. Yesterday, we experienced, very briefly, our first win. It was a small victory. It was a small victory, but didn't it feel good? We have been working hard for that victory, and there are much more to come. As a cadet at West Point, I learned the phrase that has always been my motto throughout my life: ``Mission first, people always.'' Right now, the people are left out. Right now, they don't have a Congress to speak for them at the highest level of government. Right now, every individual in this room can concede that the rounds that we have taken are not what we told our constituents we would do. We told them that we would fight the opioid crisis. For perspective, there is a hallowed monument that my father took me to. My father is a Vietnam veteran. This monument has a total length of 500 feet, nearly 2 football fields. It is 10 feet high, and the letters are only a half inch, with 58,000 names, for a war that lasted years. According to the CDC, in 2021, we lost almost twice as many people as we lost in Vietnam to overdoses. We lost 600 Americans to overdoses since Tuesday. We are talking about the debt rising. You can't count how many dollars we have spent of our great-grandchildren's money since Tuesday. The work we promised the American people we would do, we are welching on that promise. But I have hope. I have hope that we will be able to come together unified and put the right person in leadership. From many, one, e pluribus unum. I am standing here today because I am the seventh Member to stand up in support of Kevin McCarthy for Speaker. He has earned my trust. The first time we met was in his office under the watchful gaze of a Frederick Douglass painting. He told me in that office, on the eve of the 2019 State of the Union address, that there is nothing that could be said or done during that address that embarrassed him more than the fact that when the Democrat side stood up, they would look more like the United States of America than we do. He set out not to compromise our values, not to compromise our ideology, but to work harder to make sure that more people with diverse perspectives and different lived experiences could be here. In the very next election, he won 14 seats up from 199. All the seats he won were with minorities, women, and veterans. The very next cycle, this next cycle, he helped me and my good buddy and classmate, the Congressman from Texas, Wes Hunt, double the number of Black Republicans in the Republican Conference. We have a long way to go, but we have come so far. We have come so far. We can't quit. We can't quit. You don't fire a guy who is winning. Look at the Governor's mansions and legislatures we lost across the country just this past cycle and look at the gains that Kevin McCarthy has made uphill, getting the gavel as minority leader in half the time. The mainstream media likes to laud the leadership of Nancy Pelosi. Kevin McCarthy won the gavel back as minority leader in half the time going uphill. We want to talk about people who can win. I am a Lions' fan, and I am well acquainted with snatching defeat from the jaws of victory. We need to learn how to win. We need to learn how to take victory. With Kevin McCarthy's leadership, he has given us victories on rules. He has given us victories on keeping costs down. He has given us victories with winning the majority back. I am so proud to be a part of the majority-making class. He has earned my trust, and, hopefully, he will earn your trust. He has got 90 percent of us in the Conference. When is the last time any of us had 90 percent approval ratings? Kevin McCarthy, you will see up there, has over 90 percent approval ratings. If you really want to start making history, let's do it the right way. We need a conservative fighter to help this country get back on the right track, but the first thing we need to do is elect Leader McCarthy as Speaker of the House. I am ready to make history, and I know you are. I am excited to work with each and every single one of you because we have a job to do. At the direction of the Republican Conference, I advance the name of Kevin McCarthy as Speaker of the House for the 118th Congress.
3	I rise to nominate Hakeem Jeffries of New York for Speaker of this House. Mr. Speaker, I speak on behalf of the Democratic Caucus when I say that there is no victory in adjourning without doing the business of the people. Mr. Speaker, House Democrats are united behind a champion of expanding and protecting the right to vote. Since the beginning of 2021, 21 State legislatures have passed 42 restrictive voting laws. Hakeem has stood up against voter suppression in the new Jim Crow era every step of the way. As we begin a new Congress, we need a leader who believes in strengthening democracy, who understands that to cast a vote is a sacred responsibility that should be afforded to the many, not the privileged or the select few. Hakeem understands that in order for us to be a more perfect Union, we can't deny the voices of individuals in the democratic process. Mr. Speaker, today, we affirm our support of the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act. Mr. Speaker, that is why I am directed by the Democratic Caucus to advance the name of Hakeem Jeffries from New York as Speaker.
4	I rise to place in nomination the name of Byron Donalds of Florida. I will begin by saying how much I have anticipated the arrival of the gentleman from Michigan, Congressman James, in this House; not in the Senate, not in the old, staid, unchanging Senate, but in the House where we make change. Yesterday, we could have elected the first Black Speaker of the United States House of Representatives. Hear me clearly. Had the cascade of votes begun, it would have extended to every Member of this body. It could begin today. Last night, I sat within feet of Mr. Donalds as the tweet of another Member-elect appeared on the screen. That Member-elect wrote and sent out to America that Byron Donalds is a prop. I have spent a good bit of time with Mr. Donalds, especially lately. He ain't no prop. If he were a prop, he wouldn't be sitting where he is sitting. This is the tired, old, grotesquely racist rhetoric that we have seen far too long. Today, a Member-elect quote tweeted a FOX News story that incorrectly reported that I said that if I don't prevail on the question before the House, I will resign. That Member-elect quote tweeted that incorrect story for his own political purposes after the story had been corrected and the actual statement contradicting that report had been provided. This is the old trafficking in lies from Washington that the American people know far too well. And, by the way, I am not leaving. Kevin McCarthy released to the public on New Year's Eve a document entitled: ``Restoring the People's House and Ending Business as Usual.'' To his great credit, Mr. McCarthy made a statement of huge significance to the country. The nominal leader of a major party acknowledged publicly that this institution is broken, and he committed to make changes to fix it. So let me help my colleagues in the majority understand. We are doing the people's business. That is what these 3 days have been about. We are committed to make changes to this institution that has lost its way. It is epitomized in the $1.7 trillion omnibus rammed through this institution just 2 weeks ago. I say to my colleagues that I came to fix this broken system. America has seen that problem for a very long time, too. The commitment to change it is new. The genesis of the prospect of changing it emerges from this moment and those, since June, that led, at long last, to the New Year's Eve statement of Mr. McCarthy and to these 3 days on the floor. America needs men and women of courage to do something new in Congress so that Congress can serve the American people. The Lord said, Behold, I do a new thing. We need more Byron Donalds. I know Byron. He is not a prop. He is a man of personal conviction. He arrived at his convictions through authentic and genuine life experience. People ask me, what is the endgame? How does this end? The answer to this question is that this is a dynamic process. All of the decisions on this floor result from the coming together of minds, one way or another. This is the people's business. We will resolve the people's business, and when we do, we will go to the mat for the American people because we will be led by people of conviction, like the gentleman from Florida, Byron Donalds.
5	The tellers agree in their tallies that the total number of votes cast is 433, of which the Honorable Hakeem Jeffries of the State of New York has received 212, the Honorable Kevin McCarthy of the State of California has received 201, the Honorable Byron Donalds of the State of Florida has received 19, the Honorable Donald J. Trump of the State of Florida has received 1, with 1 recorded as present. No Member-elect having received the majority of the votes cast, a Speaker has not been elected. The Clerk recognizes the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Mast).
6	I rise to nominate Kevin McCarthy for Speaker of the House. I think at this point we have all heard about Kevin McCarthy at length. He is my friend, my colleague. I am very proud to say that. I know our remarks are directed toward the Clerk and the Chair, but I don't mind saying that I am directing my remarks to another part of my team. And make no mistake, we are a team. We are together. I would say this to some of my friends in Texas. I have the same fear, truly, that some of you have, that we squander this opportunity to right the wrongs that have gone on here for the last 2 and 4 years, and there are very real wrongs. I have that fear just like you do. I would say to my friend from Montana that I have the same fear you do, that America gives us this chance to change our course and that we fail. I have that fear. I would say to my friend from Arizona, I have the same fears that you do, that we don't recover from the indifference that has been shown to the honor we have to serve here, to the responsibility we have to safeguard our Constitution and the freedoms of Americans. I have that fear that it can't be recovered from. I would say to my friend, the general from Pennsylvania, that I have the same fears that he has, that we squander what our brothers and sisters in arms have sacrificed for. I stand differently because of sacrifice. My friend from Texas, Mr. Crenshaw, when he looks out at the world, he sees the world differently because of what he sacrificed for. My friend Jim Baird, when he extends a hand, he extends it differently because of what he sacrificed for during his service in Vietnam. We have so many in this body that gave so much, sacrificed so much to support and defend the Constitution of our United States. I fear that we don't live up to what some of our friends and brothers and sisters in arms have very literally given their lives for. I don't mind saying that, on occasion, that absolutely brings a tear to my eye, because it does. It is not for that. My friend from Texas, my colleague, Mr. Roy, he and I have stood on this floor together, arguing on the same team about life and death issues for the United States of America, with so few people in here that you could hear an echo. That is sad. That is not living up to our friends. I have sat in classified briefings with the general from Pennsylvania, minimally attended on both sides, with issues that absolutely matter to the safeguarding of every person within our borders and our servicemembers abroad. We can do better than that, and we will. I would say to my friends, those issues that we deal with like that, that you have spoken passionately about, I have heard your speeches. I have sat and listened to them. They can't be fixed by our friend Andy, and they can't be fixed by our friend Kevin, or our friend Jim, or our friend Byron. That comes from inside each and every one of us to change what we prioritize, to change how we choose to spend our time given this opportunity, this honor, to serve in this place. My friend, Mr. Roy, has been very proud of the number of individuals that are in here, saying that this is how the process should play out, and I totally agree with him on that. But we don't control whether individuals in here are sitting on their cell phones, scrolling through whatever social media, or whether they are actually paying attention to the issues. The Speaker can't change that. That is up to the individual. That is something that we have to look at each other and sharpen each other and make each other better. When we started this process months ago behind closed doors--as leadership for the minority was being chosen behind closed doors, leadership for the majority was being talked about and debated and chosen behind closed doors--I said to my friend, Mr. McCarthy: Please don't look at us and see me as your friend or all of us as your friends. Don't look at us and see us as your colleagues. Don't look at us and see us as individuals that are votes for Speaker of the House. Look at us as individuals that are looking out to our communities, our neighborhoods, our friends, our neighbors, and our country and telling them that we vouch for you because that is what we are doing. We are vouching for you, and I couldn't be more proud to stand here today and vouch for you, my friend. I vouch to my community that Kevin will do as he has promised. He will give us the opportunity to right the course. He will give us the opportunity to vote. He won't control how every individual votes, but he will give us the opportunity to make sure that we have smart energy policy between the Atlantic and the Pacific that makes sense for Americans; to make sure that he protects our border, protects Americans; to make sure that we don't spend what we don't have on a credit card, that we don't spend wastefully. I am vouching for my friend that he will give us that opportunity to make sure that we don't have endless terms here in the House of Representatives. I vouch that he will deliver that opportunity to us. I am proud to stand before my country and say that Kevin McCarthy is different. He is different. That is why, for those that I was speaking to earlier, the process is where it is today. He is different. He is not Paul Ryan. He is not going to tell you that you will get a term limits bill, and then you won't. He is not Mitch McConnell. He fought against the $1.7 trillion wasteful spending package that was sent to us on Christmas Eve eve. That is not him. He is different. He is not John Boehner. He didn't throw you all that disagreed with him out on your cans and say: I don't want to hear from you. I don't want to listen to you. He welcomes everybody in because he is different. If we give him the chance to be our Speaker, we will all be different. He will be different; this Congress will be different; and our country will be different. I stand before you today and say, at the direction of the Republican Conference, I advance the name of Kevin McCarthy, very proudly, as the next Speaker of the House.
7	I rise to nominate Hakeem Jeffries as Speaker of the House. Mr. Speaker, 212, 212, 212, 212, 212, 212, and, today, 212--212 House Democrats stand united behind our leader because Hakeem Jeffries stands united for the American people. The historic dysfunction that we are seeing, this intraparty fight that the American people have been drawn into, is imperiling our national security. It will imperil the ability of this government to deliver basic services. It is imperiling our jobs and our responsibility to serve our constituents, but it is also entirely predictable. They are failing to convene Congress today, but for years, they have failed to deliver the votes for the American people. When schools and small businesses needed to reopen, and the American people wanted vaccines, they said no. When we capped insulin costs for seniors at $35 a month, they said no. When we lowered healthcare costs and premiums for working families, they said no. When we defended the civil rights of LGBTQ+ Americans, they said no. When we protected lives from senseless gun violence, especially in the wake of the horrors of Buffalo and Uvalde, they said no. When we stood up for women and reproductive freedom, they said no. When we brought manufacturing back to America, they said no. When we answered the urgent call to protect our planet and invest in clean energy and create tens of millions of good-paying jobs, they said no. When we said women deserve equal pay for equal work, they said no. When we said that childcare and paid family leave should be available to every worker in this country, to every family, they said no. When we secured the fundamental right to vote for every single American, they said no. When we stood by our veterans and expanded their access to healthcare, they said no. When we defended our democracy 2 years ago tomorrow from a tyrannical President following the January 6 insurrection, they said no. House Democrats will stand together. We will stand for the American people. It is our job and our responsibility to elect a Speaker who stands with them, and with great pride, I nominate Hakeem Jeffries.
8	I rise to place into nomination the name of my friend from Florida, Byron Donalds, for Speaker of the House. You know, we are coming off an election just 2 months ago, a little less than 2 months ago, actually. What did that election tell us? Well, there were 5 million more Republicans who cast their ballots and told us that the American public wanted a change. They wanted a change from the policies of the left that has taken over the Democratic Party. It said they wanted a change, a change from this administration, this administration that has inflicted so much pain economically. We have seen crime explode. We have an administration that won't even acknowledge that there is a crisis on the border. I tell you to go on down to the border. I have invited this administration to come with me to the border. Let's see it firsthand. The American public said they want a change. They want something new. They want something different, and we are on a path that just continues. Where were we just 12 years ago? An $11 trillion national debt. Do you know where we are today? Almost three times that. Both parties share blame in that. We have to bring that under control. You bring that under control not just by changing the rules of an institution but by changing the leadership. I am told this process is painful. It is embarrassing, I am told. Do you know what it is? It is not dysfunction, and it is not imperiling. What it is, is the exchange of ideas and expression of support for people you want to be your leader in the next Congress. I think it is incredibly healthy, actually, for the American people to see that we are on the floor, something that my colleagues across the aisle so rarely like to be. They enjoy the proxy voting, I guess. They have sat there--I will give it to you. They have laughed, and they have chuckled, and they have pointed fingers at us and said, oh, see here. But do you know what? As my friend from Florida just said, we are together. We are having an internal fight. It is being displayed. I wish it wasn't necessarily being displayed, but the American people can see it. But I can tell you this: When this is over and done with, I know which side of the aisle is going to be laughing, and it is going to be the side that is unified in taking on the issues that Americans care about, the issues that the other side has not only ignored but has put upon the American people. We used to be energy independent. It seems so long ago. It was 2 years ago, actually. We are going to restore American energy independence. Do you know how you reduce inflation? You stop devaluing your currency. You stop blowing out the waters by spending $1.7 trillion on an omnibus bill that has many thousands of earmarks in it. You start taking on crime. You start fighting violence. You start fighting the overgrowth of our budget and restore our economy. You start incentivizing jobs. You recognize that the American middle class is being squeezed, and that those who are in more difficult economic circumstances are being squeezed by an economy that has this inflation that attacks energy. You bring your border back under control, and this side is going to bring that border security under control. We recognize it is a crisis. It is a crisis when, in 2020, the Yuma sector had 9,000 encounters, not for a 5-day period, but for an entire fiscal year. Under this administration, with these policies, 9,000 encounters is about a 5-day period in the Yuma sector today. You don't know what it is like unless you see that happening. We are on a suboptimal path. It has to change. To make a change, it can be difficult. It can be short-term uncomfortable. But when you move to the correct path, all of a sudden, things ease up and you can start having success. The direction here, in my opinion, is to someone like Byron Donalds, a man who is living the American Dream and is an example and a mentor for millions who need hope. Here is a man who has worked his way up. He is not a novice. He has the experience. He has the chops to be the Speaker. He is a man who has a lovely family, and they are politically engaged. They know what is going on. He has worked in Florida politics. He has worked in the legislature. He has respect. He has the quiet confidence that a leader needs. I look around this body today. I know it is hard for you to believe-- and it is hard for me to believe sometimes when I am here, as I have the great honor and privilege of serving with you--but you represent the cross-section of America, the great American experiment. The experience that you bring and the knowledge that you bring is unique. The road to recovery is through this body. I believe if you want to make changes, you have to make changes. Maintaining the status quo is not an option today. I believe we have reached an existential crisis in this country. I look across the aisle, and I see the left has captured virtually every institution. It is time that we reassert ourselves and put America back on the road to recovery. The person who I think is most capable and will do the most credible job to lead us back that way is my friend from Florida, the Honorable Byron Donalds, who I am pleased and proud to nominate as the next Speaker of the House of Representatives.
9	The tellers agree in their tallies that the total number of votes cast is 433, of which the Honorable Hakeem Jeffries of the State of New York has received 212, the Honorable Kevin McCarthy of the State of California has received 201, the Honorable Byron Donalds of the State of Florida has received 17, the Honorable Kevin Hern of the State of Oklahoma has received 2, the Honorable Donald J. Trump of the State of Florida has received 1, with 1 recorded as present. No Member-elect having received a majority of the votes cast, a Speaker has not been elected. The Clerk recognizes the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Nehls).
10	I rise to nominate Kevin McCarthy as Speaker of the House. Kevin McCarthy has been our leader for the past 4 years and has overwhelming support within this Conference. My intent today is to address the American people who have been watching these proceedings and are concerned about what they have seen in this Chamber over the past 2 days. I am a Member of the House Freedom Caucus, and I am proud to say so. I believe the 20 Members that have nominated an alternate candidate have expressed their concerns with leadership, and many of those concerns have been addressed and accepted by Leader McCarthy and this Conference. I believe this battle we are waging must end. Kevin McCarthy fully understands that being Speaker of the House will not be easy. Kevin is aware that any legislation he would like to pass out of this House will require support and enforcement from the Freedom Caucus. This is where I believe we can hold the Speaker accountable. Kevin has made changes to the House rules at the request of all Members. One of those rule changes was the motion to vacate the chair, which Nancy Pelosi removed 4 years ago to avoid the scrutiny and the accountability. The motion to vacate the chair, which has not been offered for a floor vote in over 100 years, calls for the removal of the Speaker of the House. Kevin has reinstated the motion to vacate the chair, which I believe was the right thing to do. This motion allows us, the Republican Conference, to hold the Speaker accountable. The American people gave us, my friends, us, the Republicans, the majority, and their vote of confidence to change the direction of our country. The American people are begging for leadership because the Biden administration certainly has not placed the American people first. Kevin McCarthy understands. He understands he must protect that Speaker's gavel and abide by the will of the American people. The decisions we make in the 118th Congress are critical to the future of our country. The decisions we make, the legislation we pass as a Republican majority must have the support of the American people. We have a crisis on every corner in America, and the American people are expecting Republicans to bring this much-needed change. We must come together today and implement that change. To those of you outside of Washington that are watching, Kevin McCarthy and this Republican majority understand your pain. We understand your pain. We feel it. We understand we must secure our southern border. We must unleash our energy sector and become energy independent. We must curb inflation by reducing spending, and we must support our law enforcement officers. We have to get crime under control. We must place America and its people first. I say to my friends on the Republican side that we can do all this while holding the Biden administration accountable and the Washington bureaucrats who have infringed and abused the rights of the American people and their families long enough. Under Speaker McCarthy they will be held accountable. They will be held accountable. Today, let's do what is in the best interests of the American people. Let's get to work. Let's elect Kevin McCarthy as Speaker of the House. Mr. Speaker, at the direction of the Republican Conference, I advance the name of Kevin McCarthy as the next Speaker of the House for the 118th Congress.
11	I rise today to nominate Hakeem Jeffries for Speaker of the House. Vote after vote, Democrats stand united and ready to work on behalf of the American people under the leadership of Hakeem Jeffries. Vote after vote, nomination after nomination, Democrats are united, just like we were united when we passed the American Rescue Plan to get our economy back on track; united when we passed the infrastructure law to rebuild America; united when we capped insulin at $35, passed historic gun safety legislation, and passed the PACT Act to help our Nation's veterans; united when Democrats passed the CHIPS and Science Act to bring manufacturing back to America; united when Democrats passed the Inflation Reduction Act to reduce our deficit and protect our environment. Democrats are unified to tackle the climate crisis while Republicans are mired in their own leadership crisis. Mr. Speaker, House Democrats are ready, willing, and able to get to work for the American people. We will do so under the leadership of Hakeem Jeffries, who has a plan for the American people. Therefore, as vice chair of the Democratic Caucus, I am directed by the vote of our Caucus to present for election to the office of Speaker of the House of Representatives for the 118th Congress, Representative-elect from the State of New York, Hakeem Jeffries.
12	I rise to nominate the name of Byron Donalds as Speaker of the House of Representatives. Let me begin by stating that it is an absolute privilege to be here, standing and serving with each and every one of you. I know we have differences of opinions, and I know we have differences of agendas that we would like to pursue, but I will tell you that we are all representing the United States of America in the best fashion that I know that we truly believe in. So thank you, and it is a privilege. When I walk out every evening from the Longworth Office Building, I will tell you that as I look back on the Capitol with the lights gleaming upon it, that I recognize the honor, the privilege, and the responsibility that each one of us has taken on to be in this place that we are right now and the obligations that we have to the districts that we represent back home. It is an incredible privilege, but it is also an incredible responsibility. I do not take it lightly, and I know that no one in this room does. We are participating in a system that has endured 247 years, through drought and through flood, through world wars and through a civil war. In some way, we return to this place year after year to serve the people of the United States of America. Unfortunately, over the past 15 years, the process that we use has been dramatically broken. The voices that were sent here to equally--equally--represent each of the 435 districts across this Nation have become diminished. This through the consolidation of power into the hands of the Speaker and a fortunate few who happen to serve on the Committee on Rules which controls every aspect of legislation that travels through this body. The debate and the discussion have been all but eliminated, and the balance of us are left to vote ``yes'' or ``no.'' Those are our options. That is what has led to the disintegration of the relationships that we see across this floor. That is not equal representation which is guaranteed by our Constitution and expected by our constituents. We have had more discussion and debate over the last 3 days than I have participated in on this floor for the last 2 years. It is healthy. It absolutely promotes the collegiality that everyone is striving to obtain. We are having discussions not just within our own party, but amongst each other as we walk around and start planning for the legislation that we will need to address over the next 2 years in the 118th Congress that sooner or later--yes, sooner or later--we will begin to function as. Those are the good days. And guess what? Our constituents think, as they watch us on C-SPAN today, that this is how every day functions. They think that this is how every bill gets addressed in this body. They will be shocked to learn, the ones that you have not disclosed this little nasty secret to, that unfortunately, that is not how it works around this place. That under the current rules and under the current leadership construction, that on fly-in days, typically Monday, at the beginning of the week, the leadership on both sides of the aisle negotiate a number of bills, 15 to 20 pieces of legislation, that one Democrat and one Republican stand on this floor, they discuss momentarily, and then they say the magic words, Without objection, we will pass this by unanimous consent. There are two people standing on the floor passing pieces of legislation that oftentimes are the naming of buildings that don't really bother anybody or affect one's life but, in many circumstances, spend millions and tens of millions of dollars that the taxpayers are obligated to cover, and their Representative was not even here to vote upon it. That, my friends, is wrong. It is wrong. So, yes, we need to have change. We need to fix this broken system. Several of us have taken it upon ourselves to fly in and object to those very bills, not because we are objecting to the bill, but just to force them to be brought out into the daylight so that everyone can hear about those bills, to force people to come out and vote up or down for those bills as their constituents believe that they are doing right now. That is just one of the little secrets, and it demonstrates again how broken this system is. Last summer, we began to negotiate, a group of us, in good faith, a list of changes, amendments to the rules of this body, not to empower ourselves, not to bring personal benefit to ourselves, but to empower you and you and you, Maxine, and you and you and everyone sitting in this Chamber equally. There are no rules. I did not use anyone's name. Everyone should be-- excuse me. Maxine.
13	I will, Mr. Speaker. Thank you. So that everyone will have equal representation, equal representation for the districts that elected them. These are not radical deviations from the norm. These are a restoration of the rules so that this place can function properly. Things like single-subject legislation that most statehouses utilize right now so that we don't have 4,000-page documents that we are given a matter of hours to review that are filled with many subject matters that are trillions of dollars in cost; rules like germaneness so that you can actually bring an amendment forward on the floor as long as it pertains to the bill that was originally being addressed; an open rule process, again, so that each individual here can participate in the thing that we were sent here to do, to help collaborate and craft legislation and work together, that is what we were sent here to do. These are commonsense amendments that would restore the process and give each of us an equal voice. This is how we are going to secure the border that everyone now, I do believe, has recognized that there is a problem with. This is how we are going to regain energy dominance again, which is not just an economic issue. It is a national security issue. This is how we are going to reduce the inflation rate, by working together, but we cannot call it working together if you cede all of that power to the hands of a few. Hoping for this change will not create this change. Change is uncomfortable. We understand that. It is not unachievable, and we must make change in this broken system. We must. The current leadership that is in place will continue and support the use of earmarks in this body, and that is the golden trail to corruption. It is a way to buy votes and spread money around this body from places outside of this city that leads to bad legislation and bad decisions. The current leadership, I was told, I should not be so concerned with these suspension bills that get passed every week because now they have made an amendment. We keep hearing about these amendments and the concessions that were made. The concession was that they will not ask for anything to be suspended that costs more than $100 million. Now, I don't know about the neighborhoods that you live in, but in the neighborhood that I live in, $100 million is a lot of money. My constituents expect me to vote upon $100 million bills and $80 million bills and $10 million bills so that they know what in the world is in them and what is going on, and they do not expect them to be passed by unanimous consent with no one on the floor. I made a living developing property, and as many of you probably know, it takes a while to take a piece of ground from bare earth to a community. My mother, God rest her soul, came out to one of my projects. I had just opened it up, and it had been 2 years since the time I had bought the property. By the time we went out, I had a nice entrance built. The streets were built, and the streetlights were there. They were just starting to build homes. She said: My goodness, Matthew. You must really be pleased to finally see your project coming up out of the ground. I said: No, Mom. Actually, I am pleased that everyone else can see it because I saw it 2 years ago when I first walked out there. Well, I have a vision for this place, that we can restore regular order so that each of us may have the ability to represent our districts and our constituents equally as we move through this process. Then, at that time, we will be able to call it truly the people's House again. I have been here just 2 years, and I have watched Byron Donalds during that time and previously as he proudly served in the Florida Legislature. I can tell you this: He is a man of intellect; he is a man of integrity; and he is a man that I am proud to nominate as the next Speaker of the House of Representatives.
14	I rise to nominate the gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. Hern) as Speaker of the House. Mr. Speaker, we have been accused of not having a plan. Well, we have presented many plans and are even presenting two plans simultaneously right now for Speaker of the people's House. I sat in my chair anticipating to vote for Byron Donalds, whom I respect, whom I see as a leader, and there was a gut check that said we need someone that is going to convince my colleagues on this side of the aisle that it is time to get going. It is time to build momentum. Many of you have said it. You see that Kevin McCarthy does not have the votes. You are understanding that he is not going to get there. We had the votes for him. I cannot produce those anymore. The colleagues that I brought with me to offer those 218 votes on the first ballot aren't there anymore. It is not happening. As it has been said, we need to get to a point where we start evaluating what life after Kevin McCarthy looks like. America doesn't want more talk, and I am going to keep my speech a little short. They want action. I will take that. I want to get to work, too. America is tired of rhetoric, and they want results. This isn't chaos. This is a constitutional republic at work. I am a mom of four boys. I know what chaos and dysfunction look like. This is actually a really beautiful thing, to be here with all of my colleagues debating. Just as the gentleman from Montana said, we have not experienced this in the 2 years that we have served here in Washington, D.C. This is the most debate that has taken place, and I love it. I love the conversations that are going on, on the floor, in the Cloakroom, and in the Halls. There is nothing extreme. There is nothing unreasonable. We are trying to get this right. As my conservative colleagues and I have stated time and time again, Congress is broken and fundamentally needs change. I am here to get this right. We need a leader that is not of the broken system, someone who is not beholden to the lobbyists but to the people who sent us here, someone who can unite our party, and, most importantly, someone who can deliver on the promises that we have all made to the American people. I believe that there are many people on the floor today that can do just that. I voted for my friend Jim Jordan. I voted for my friend Byron Donalds. I am voting for Kevin Hern, the gentleman from Oklahoma. Mr. Hern went from rags to riches. Like myself and many other Members, he is a small business owner. He has lived the American Dream. He is a father, a family man, and as Kevin likes to say, he is a conservative, but he is not mad about it. We can have a happy warrior leading us. I understand that threats have been made about committee assignments, that you won't receive committee assignments if you do not vote for Kevin McCarthy. That is true; it happened in Conference. That is exactly what we were told, but we don't govern in fear. We govern for the people on principle. Don't be afraid to do the right thing. I believe that Kevin Hern is a unifier. He just received the chairmanship of the Republican Study Committee by unanimous consent. This is the largest caucus in our Conference. Look how many people have already put their trust in Kevin Hern to lead them. I get asked by my constituents: Where does this go? Who can unify the party? Who can deliver results? Representative Kevin Hern can do just that, and I am proud to enter his name into nomination, and I hope that some of you join me.
15	The tellers agree in their tallies that the total number of votes cast is 432, of which the Honorable Hakeem Jeffries of the State of New York has received 212 votes, the Honorable Kevin McCarthy of the State of California has received 200 votes, the Honorable Byron Donalds of the State of Florida has received 17 votes, the Honorable Kevin Hern of the State of Oklahoma has received 3 votes, with 1 recorded as present. No Member-elect having received a majority of the votes cast, a Speaker has not been elected. The Clerk recognizes the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Ciscomani).
16	I rise to nominate Kevin McCarthy as Speaker of the House. The American Dream is a dream worth fighting for, and I know in my heart of hearts that Kevin McCarthy is the man to lead us as we work to fulfill that dream for everyone in every State and in every district. Everyone in this Chamber understands the need to serve our constituents. It is who elected us, and it is our responsibility. Kevin understands this as well as anyone. He has dedicated his life to spreading opportunity for all through the private sector and the public sector. This place is a special place for me. My first time on the Hill was back when I was an intern in 2003. My mom visited, and I remember walking her around the Halls of Congress as if I owned the place. Well, just a few days ago, I got to walk my mom around this special place one more time, but now as a Member-elect of the United States House of Representatives. The American Dream is alive. I believe it. I have gotten to know Kevin McCarthy well. He secured a Republican majority in the United States House and laid out a plan to deliver for the American people. There is one thing I know about Kevin McCarthy: He cares about the American people. He cares about our country, and he is here not to be somebody but to do something. That has been laid out in his Commitment to America, to fight for: an economy that is strong; a nation that is safe; a future that is built on freedom; and a government that is accountable. This I can strongly get behind. This country gave me and my family an opportunity, an opportunity to achieve the American Dream. Mr. Speaker, I was born in Mexico. The best way that I can tell you who I am is through a short conversation I had with my dad when I told him I was going to run for office. This conversation, of course, was in Espanol, in Spanish. My dad asked me, ``Juan, where else could we have our story? We come to this country, we immerse in the culture, we learn English, we go through the long journey and become U.S. citizens.'' He said, ``I drive a bus my whole life, and now my son has a shot at becoming a Member of the United States Congress. Where else in the world could we have our story?'' But where else in the world could any of us have our story? Regardless of our background, regardless of where we come from, what side of the aisle we sit on, we have the privilege and opportunity to sit here today as part of a historic moment, fighting for what we believe. The answer of where else is nowhere else. Only here. I trust Kevin to fight for that American Dream because he is a product of it. We are all a product of it. He gets it and understands that a government accountable to the people is the best tool to ensure that our future generations continue to have a real shot at the American Dream. So let's be proud of our stories. Let's be grateful to God for it all, and let's get to work to ensure that everyone has the same opportunity to write their own story. Being a Representative isn't a job title. It is a job description. The eyes of the world are on us as we are airing our grievances. That is the cost of leadership, the leadership that comes from this body. So let's act like it. Let's step up to that calling that our country needs, and our districts expect from us. I am confident we will resolve this issue and will stand united to fight for the values that matter to the American people, the American people who sent us here to tackle inflation, to protect our border, to hold the executive branch accountable. It is time to do the job we were entrusted to do, to get results for the American people who sent us here. The best person to lead us in this journey and in this fight to defend the American Dream for all is Kevin McCarthy. I am proud to stand here before you today as the first naturalized citizen in the history of Arizona to win a congressional seat, proud of the work of my parents: my dad who drove a bus for most of his life; my mom, a homemaker. We grew up in a two-bedroom apartment. They didn't own a home until I was in college. My story is not unique. I washed cars with my dad in the same neighborhood that our office sits today. We are not here celebrating one particular story. We are here celebrating the American opportunity, only found here, being born from this body as well, as the opportunities of our country have gone. All of you in this room have that story. I strongly believe that we all have a car wash story, the story where we began, and in spite of all the challenges, in spite of all the obstacles, we are here, and each one of us are a testament to the opportunity and the greatness of this country. That is why we are here. I strongly believe that Kevin McCarthy is the person to lead this body in this new fight, this next 118th Congress. At the direction of the Republican Conference, I advance the name of Kevin McCarthy as the next Speaker of the House of the 118th Congress.
17	I rise again to nominate Hakeem Jeffries for Speaker of the House. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague on the other side of the aisle for sharing his American Dream story and to his family for being with him at his side. It is our hope that this Chamber gets down to the business so he and all the new Members in this Chamber can be sworn in to do the work of the people. That is why House Democrats stand united, again, on this ballot to make sure that Hakeem Jeffries is the lead vote-getter in this Chamber. It is also why it is important, just as I relayed a few days ago, Mr. Speaker, the importance of the character of Hakeem Jeffries, who he is, his story, and why he should be given an opportunity to lead this Chamber. In New York, after the fifth grade, you can't get on a bus to go to school anymore. You have to take alternate means. You can walk or you can take a train. In sixth grade, Hakeem and his brother would walk to the train station, take the train, get off the train, and walk to school. Now, there is a little disagreement in the Jeffries' household as to how many days his father took him on that route before he let him navigate that route with his younger brother. The character it takes for an older brother in sixth grade and his fourth-grade little brother to go to school each and every day in New York, to be on their own, to handle themselves and to handle each other, that is the character of this man. That is the character of a leader you want in this Chamber. He is going to be the one who walks with you, who sees you through the day, who makes sure your priorities are his priorities. And at the end of the day, when it is just you and he, he is going to make sure we all do the business of this body, and we all get home for our families. There is nothing more important than the work that we do in this Chamber for the American people: safeguarding priorities like Social Security and Medicare; making sure that our families are taken care of; making sure that the families in our communities are taken care of. What we have seen in this Chamber is tough. It is tough to watch. It is tough to imagine what would happen in this Chamber today if we were debating Social Security and Medicare. What would happen? What would the votes be? Where would people stand? That is why it is important that Hakeem Jeffries leads this body. On behalf of the Democratic Caucus, I am nominating the leader of the governing party in this Chamber, Hakeem Jeffries from New York.
18	I rise to nominate Byron Donalds as Speaker of the House. Mr. Speaker, I have known Byron for roughly about 4 years now and being that he is from the State of Florida, I can tell you that I have come to know him on both the campaign trail and personally. But I want to clarify something real quick to my colleagues across the aisle. What you are seeing with this discussion does not mean that we are dysfunctional. And in no way, shape, or form will a Democrat ever hold the gavel to a Republican-controlled House. These discussions and dialogue have actually been good for the American people. And although the media tries to pit us against each other, I can tell you that it has been something that we need as a country. There are people that are frustrated with this process. Byron, through this entire time, has done something that leaders should do more of, and that is listen; respect people when they are talking; understand the needs of the American people; be willing to negotiate but also realize when it is proper to stand your ground on certain things. I ask my colleagues today to support him. I think he is an incredible representation of what this country is, and that is exactly why he has my vote for Speaker of the House.
19	I rise to nominate Kevin Hern for Speaker of the House. It is as simple as that. Let's start getting somewhere with this; realize the fact that Kevin McCarthy does not have the votes. Let's elect a Republican who can unify our Conference, who is a true leader. I am casting my vote for Kevin Hern, and I hope you will, as well.
20	The tellers agree in their tallies that the total number of votes cast is 432, of which the Honorable Hakeem Jeffries of the State of New York has received 212 votes, the Honorable Kevin McCarthy of the State of California has received 200 votes, the Honorable Byron Donalds of the State of Florida has received 13 votes, the Honorable Kevin Hern of the State of Oklahoma has received 7 votes, with 1 voting present. No Member-elect having received a majority of the votes cast, a Speaker has not been elected. The Clerk recognizes the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Hill).
21	I rise tonight in the spirit of 1923 to address the House. Mr. Speaker, I rise to nominate Kevin McCarthy as Speaker of the House. Mr. Speaker, first let me express my deep appreciation and the appreciation of everybody in this room for the work you are doing. Our Clerk has stepped up and reflects our House's best tradition of preparation and dedication to this institution, and we are grateful. From the first Speaker of the House, the Honorable Frederick Muhlenberg, to the one who will be elected next, Kevin McCarthy, the role of Speaker of the House is one of the most beloved in American history. The Speaker's mission is to carry out the principled goals and objectives of his or her party while at the same time protecting this institution and the traditions of the people's House all the while remaining faithful to that imperative in our preamble of the Constitution to ``promote the general welfare.'' It is a difficult job that takes a special personality with deep affection for the House, robust courage, a sense of humor, and great amounts of humility and patience. I have watched Kevin McCarthy for longer than my 8 years serving in this Chamber, and I can say without hesitation that Kevin has brought these foundational traits of leadership to bear for the good of this institution and for the good of the American people. It is said that a nation not in control of her finances cannot control her destiny, and I agree. From our many conversations over many years, I have no doubt that our next Speaker, Kevin McCarthy, agrees. In the Republican Commitment to America, Leader McCarthy charged our Republican Conference with taking on his two biggest concerns facing this world and this Nation: China and our domestic national debt and deficit. Over the past 2 years, we have lost our way on spending--printing too much money at our central bank and spending here in Congress like drunken sailors. This bad policy palooza went into overdrive in the past 2 years with some $5 trillion in new spending demanded by President Biden and now delivered by the House minority--whose own budget chair famously said that there is effectively no limit to what America can print, borrow, and spend. Of course, this is madness, and it is not anchored in any economic tenet, and there is not a single one of us here who isn't demanding a return to fiscal discipline. And who can deliver fiscal discipline? Kevin McCarthy. On the point of spending, let me show you, Mr. Speaker, a list of everyone who has written me in the Second Congressional District who has asked me to cut spending. I am holding up a blank piece of paper. No one has asked me to cut spending in writing, and there are not many people who get a lot of mail in this House to cut spending and to set spending priorities. In contrast, we get hundreds of letters asking us to increase spending. But we are at a critical point in this Nation's fiscal health, and there is one person to help see us through it: Kevin McCarthy. How do I know? Because he has said it himself, and he has identified how to do it. In 2018 then-Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy brought a balanced budget amendment to the floor of this House. Mr. McCarthy said, by our actions we have shown Washington's spending problem can't be boiled down to a lack of will. It is a problem of structure and process, and everyone knows the process of government funding in Washington is broken. He went on to say that when you change structure, you change behavior, and that no matter what, we know that if the structure set up by the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 has only worked to its successful completion four times in 44 years, then we have nothing to lose by making big changes. That is your next Speaker on the floor of this House in 2018. Kevin McCarthy is committed to making big changes. We have heard it in our conference meetings. We have heard it in our rules debates. We know this includes reforming the budget process, fighting to bring all 12 appropriations bills to the floor under regular order and on time, and crafting changes to structurally rein in spending in this House. These changes will bring sanity back to our fiscal process. I am committed to bringing sanity back to the fiscal process, and I hope every Member on this floor will be and follow Mr. McCarthy's lead. Much has been said by my friends on the other side of the aisle--my good friends, the so-called popcorn caucus this week, if you will--over the past few days about 1923, and we are having a robust discussion here among House Republicans as to who will be the next Speaker of the House. Back in 1923 the insurgency among Republicans then was from the center left of the Republican Party. Today, it is from the center right. But there is more to the story in that fight 100 years ago, and I want to remind my friends of that history. When Fred Gillett was elected Speaker on the ninth ballot in 1923, the outcome was a more robust, more unified Republican Conference, one that would go to work with President Calvin Coolidge, cut government spending, balance the budget, and cut taxes while paying down the debt. House Republicans 100 years ago unleashed a pro-growth agenda. House Republicans under Speaker Kevin McCarthy will unleash a pro-growth agenda to get this economy moving. That pro-growth agenda benefited families in the 1920s. The McCarthy pro-growth agenda will benefit families across this country today. A century later, under the next Speaker Kevin McCarthy, mark my words, this party will come together to unleash American energy, make the Trump tax cuts permanent, rein in runaway government spending, and fight for a balanced budget. So I stand today with unqualified support to nominate my friend, the next Speaker of the House, Kevin McCarthy.
22	I rise to nominate Hakeem Jeffries for Speaker of the House. Mr. Speaker, we have heard a lot today, yesterday, and the day before about the potential history that may be made in this Chamber. But it is worth repeating to the American people watching the history that has already been made by the elevation of the dedicated, talented, passionate, and committed public servant and leader from the State of New York, the first African American and the first person of color to lead any political party in the House of Representatives in the history of our country, and that is Hakeem Jeffries. Mr. Speaker, it is with great pride that I rise to nominate the gentleman from New York, the man who has been the lead vote-getter 10 times and counting to be the Speaker of the House. Mr. Speaker, the last several days have been difficult for the country and for the American people as they have watched what has unfolded in this Chamber and as they have seen the dysfunction laid bare on the other side of the aisle. I suspect that some Americans watching will recall the dysfunction of years past. My colleague on the other side of the aisle talked about history, Woodrow Wilson, Calvin Coolidge, and the like. Mr. Speaker, I would like to take you through a more recent history because I can tell my friends that as a Member-elect from the great State of Colorado, this is not their first rodeo as far as dysfunction is concerned. Four years ago today, I was sworn in with my colleagues from the class of 2018 during what became the most difficult and the longest government shutdown in the history of our country. Why? Because of the dysfunction and the chaos on the other side of the aisle. The country then did what it has so often done: it looked to House Democrats to govern and to lead, and under the leadership of one of the greatest Speakers in the history of the country, Nancy D'Alesandro Pelosi, that is exactly what we did. If we want to talk about history, then let's talk about recent history. Two years ago tomorrow I stood here with so many of my friends in this Chamber as our democracy was attacked as our colleagues on the other side of the aisle tried to overturn an election. And the country, yet again, did what it has done before: it looked to House Democrats to lead and to govern. That is exactly what we did when we certified the election, and we safeguarded the transfer of power. So here we find ourselves again in unprecedented times in the early days of the 118th Congress. The first time in over 100 years in which the House of Representatives is unable to organize because the House Republican Conference cannot select a Speaker. It is a sad day for this institution, but the country will do what it has done before: It will look to House Democrats to govern and to lead, and under the leadership of Hakeem Jeffries, that is exactly what we will do. Now, we have heard from so many over the course of last 3 days about the wisdom, the leadership, and the talents of this extraordinary leader from Brooklyn. But let me say why I believe that he is the person for this moment. Centuries ago, our Nation's second President, John Adams, laid bare his fear that Members of this body would gain influence by meanness, not greatness; by ignorance, not learning. Hakeem Jeffries' leadership is rooted in greatness and not meanness. It is rooted in learning and not ignorance. His approach is rooted in common sense, and not the empty and jaded cynicism and noise that we see so often in our political sphere. He is a leader for our times, which is why I believe he is the leader for this time. The bottom line, I say to my colleagues, is this: it is 6:30 p.m. here in Washington, D.C. The House of Representatives, this sacred institution, needs a leader. It needs a Speaker. It needs a leader who will inspire us, a leader who knows that our best days are yet ahead, and a leader committed to our communities, our Constitution, and our country. I am here to say that leader is Hakeem Jeffries of the great State of New York. Mr. Speaker, it gives me great honor as the chairman of the House Democratic Policy and Communications Committee to nominate Hakeem Jeffries for Speaker of the House.
23	My friends, when Donald Trump was President, taxes were cut, regulations were slashed, energy was abundant, wages were rising, capital was returning from overseas to fund the dreams and ambitions of our fellow Americans, and the economy was roaring. What a contrast to what we have seen from this administration now. I rise to nominate Donald Trump for the position of Speaker of the House. For all of the vitriol that we hear from the media and at times the left, there were great moments of bipartisanship under the Trump Presidency. The Democrat nominee for Speaker knows that well because he led valiantly on the efforts for criminal justice reform, and I was honored to join him. I know no matter who is sitting in that Speaker chair, we have got a lot of work to do on that very issue. We took a first step, but there is a second step and a third step to take. I am glad that we were able to work with President Trump, with Republicans, and with Democrats to provide real outcomes for Americans to create greater prosperity and more opportunity. I also care deeply about President Trump's focus on our Nation's veterans. It seems for far too long on the campaign trail, veterans were disregarded, forgotten about. When we would get elected to office, their issues would not always rise and get center stage, but we were able to pass veterans' accountability measures. We were able to actually get people fired at the VA who weren't doing their job. What a great thing that would be to extend, to continue, and to continue to nourish. President Trump oriented our views on trade so that we actually put the American people first, not foreign interests abroad or special interests here at home. President Trump knew that we had to confront China, that China had already engaged in a trade war against us, but it was a war that we were surrendering, and so we started to fight back. He stood with our farmers. On foreign policy, we stopped trying to find a new Jeffersonian democracy to build out of sand and blood and Arab militias in the Middle East. As a matter of fact, President Trump, I believe, is the first President in my lifetime who didn't start any new wars. This is an issue that I know unites some elements of the right and left for the benefit of our communities. This government for far too long has been deeply corrupt. This town has been deeply corrupt. The way people get leadership positions and chairmanships and opportunities to be able to morally preen has been by accepting lobbyist and special interest money and redistributing that money as currency for favors. That is not a criticism of either political party. It is a criticism of what we have allowed to happen in this place. If we just go next man up on our side of the aisle, we will reify that corrupt system, and we will abandon the people who are expecting us to fight for them. I have heard from my colleagues about all the important work we have to do, and it is my sincere fear that if we were to allow Mr. McCarthy to assume the Speakership, that would not get done, that it would be business as usual, and the very same things that have paralyzed progress for both parties would continue to shackle us to never-ending failure. We can be better than that. We can raise our gaze, indeed. We also have to restore to the Speaker's office an actual person that ought to be in the Speaker's office, not the squatter who is currently there. If the Architect of the Capitol is listening, I have sent a letter. I would like to know what the basis is to allow somebody to occupy the Speaker's office who comes in second place 10 straight times. Is there some basis in law or rule or precedent for that? I nominate President Trump because we must make our country great again, and he can start by making the House of Representatives great again.
24	I rise for the purpose of placing a name in nomination. What a privilege we all are enjoying tonight, we are all enjoying as elected Members of this great body; the people's House, as it has been said. What a great representation of the constitutional Republic in which we enjoy living, the greatest country in the history of the world, as we play out as the people's Representatives in selecting the all-important position of the Speaker of the people's House. I was out on the southeast balcony here just a few moments ago looking out at the Supreme Court, looking at the flag flying above this Capitol Building, looking at the Jefferson and Madison--both Virginians, by the way--Library of Congress buildings, and pausing to do what probably most of us recognize we fail too often to do, to take it in, this high privilege, this distinct honor that we have to be the people's Representatives from our respective districts in this House here in this Congress. This is the greatest Nation in the history of the world. With all of our imperfections as people and as a Nation, no nation in the history of the world has freed more people, has rescued more people, has ministered to more people, has evangelized to more people than the United States of America. And that would be a good time to respond with some applause. There is a reason why people from all over the world are trying to get into this country, many of them illegally, due to the policies of the current administration. People from all over the world are literally taking on a treacherous journey, risking life and limb, subjecting themselves to abuse to try to sneak their way into our country because they know this is the greatest country in the history of the world. No country in the history of the world has provided more upward mobility, more advancement opportunity to people of all races, all nationalities, all ethnicities like the United States of America. However, we as a Nation, we are teetering on the brink, aren't we? Isn't there just a window of opportunity to save the Republic? Crisis after crisis. $32 trillion in national debt, which equates to over $90,000 per citizen, almost $100,000 now per citizen, some $300,000 per household. When I said that on this very floor a few months ago in a budget debate, the then-chairman of the Budget Committee said, ``Stop saying that; we are not asking anybody to pay it back,'' as if it is not real, as if it is Monopoly. As I heard someone say, don't tell the other side what happens after trillion, what comes after trillion. We just spent $1.7 trillion, both parties--Republicans joining in the Senate, a few in the House--to pass a $1.7 trillion omnibus spending bill. Sadly and unfortunately, part of the reason why I stand here today, that was the kind of bill that has been supported by our former minority leader every time it has come up in the House, no matter who was in control in the 12 years that he has been in leadership, contributing to the $32 trillion in national debt. Yes, the other side is better at raising the debt than we are, but we have been participants. We are in crisis. We are in crisis with 5 million illegals having invaded the border in the last 2 years. When is it too much? We are in crisis with the state of our education system, K-12, college campuses, indoctrination of our kids. We are in crisis with the weakening of our military, with these NDAA bills. We are in crisis with trampling on our most basic and essential freedoms over the last 2 years in ways we couldn't have imagined pre- 2020: Whether we can assemble, whether we can worship, whether we can earn a living, whether we can travel, what we have to put on our face, what we have to take into our body, whether or not we have to disclose what we have taken in; trampled in ways we couldn't have imagined just a few years ago. The greatest reflection of where the people in the country are is the House of Representatives, and the people spoke back on November 8 and gave the majority by some 3 or 4 million votes to the Republican Party. It is not the White House, it is not the Senate, it is the people's House that reflects where the American people are, and they have trusted us on this side of the aisle with the leadership of this House. We have a window of opportunity to validate that trust, to do whatever we can to save the Republic, to earn them giving us the Senate and the White House and this House back in 2024. We have got to have a leader who not only has true conservative convictions that reflect the majority of Republicans who sent us here, but yet a courageous leader. It doesn't matter what you believe, by the way, unless you are willing to take risk to yourself personally to fight for it. We need a leader who has proven to do that very thing. We have an opportunity to make history. We will live with the decision on this side of the aisle for the next 2 years. We will answer for how we voted. I know how people in all the respective districts, like mine, Mr. Speaker, how they are telling us to vote. They have been telling me how to vote for 3 years, to vote for transformational change in the leadership of this Republican Party. They have told me not to vote for the status quo, not to vote for the next in line establishment creature of the swamp cartel, but to vote for transformational change. And they are watching us. They are wondering if we will hang in there or will we cave or will we give in or will we let them down one more time. I say, we are not going to do that. They are looking to us. You look and see what a great job a recent businessman did in the White House, did things no one else has ever done in the White House, did things that no one else has ever done to try to change the country, showed courage, common sense, and judgment we have not seen before. We need a businessman as the Speaker of the House. We need a businessman like Kevin Hern as Speaker of the House. We need a businessman like Kevin Hern who has led the Republican Study Committee's Budget & Spending Task Force that I have served on for 2 years and put forth the only balanced budget that I have seen--heck, the only budget that I have seen--in the 2 years that I have been here, who fought alongside us to say why don't we adopt the Republican Study Committee's budget for the Republican Party? And we didn't get agreement to do that. We need someone who will do that. We need someone who is the head of the largest caucus in the Republican Conference, someone like Kevin Hern. It is my privilege to put into official nomination Kevin Hern for Speaker of the House.
25	The tellers agree in their tallies that the total number of votes cast is 432, of which the Honorable Hakeem Jeffries of the State of New York has received 212, the Honorable Kevin McCarthy of the State of California has received 200, the Honorable Byron Donalds of the State of Florida has received 12, the Honorable Kevin Hern of the State of Oklahoma has received 7, the Honorable Donald J. Trump of the State of Florida has received 1, with 1 Member-elect recorded as present. No Member-elect having received the majority of the votes cast, a Speaker has not been elected.
26	The Chair has examined the Journal of the last day's proceedings and announces to the House her approval thereof. Representatives-elect are invited to join in the Pledge of Allegiance. Pledge of Allegiance The CLERK led the Pledge of Allegiance as follows: I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Point of Order
27	I rise today to celebrate my friend and long-time staff member, Ms. Lynn Yates, on her well-deserved retirement after 20 years of exceptional service to the constituents of Maryland's Second District. Ms. Yates began her career in public service nearly 50 years ago--in 1976--as a scheduler and executive assistant to multiple Baltimore County Executives, including myself, before joining me in Congress in 2003. A Towson, Maryland, native, Ms. Yates graduated from Towson High School, where she was renowned for throwing a ``no hitter'' as the star pitcher for the softball team. She earned a business degree Magna Cum Laude from Towson University, while minoring in art. She later received her Master's in Public Administration from the prestigious University of Pennsylvania. In addition to many athletic pursuits--she was once one of Baltimore County's premier female dirt track racers--Ms. Yates has cultivated a lifelong passion for the outdoors. An avid hiker, skier, camper and kayaker, Ms. Yates has visited nearly every National Park in the country. She is a dedicated conservationist and does her part to reduce waste, while inspiring others to as well, so that future generations may experience the same joy she has found in the great outdoors. Beyond her academic and athletic endeavors, Ms. Yates is one of the most knowledgeable and compassionate Congressional caseworkers who has ever worked with our team. Throughout her long and distinguished career, Ms. Yates has helped thousands of Second District constituents, many of which are among the most vulnerable members of our community, including seniors, disabled individuals and the recently-widowed. Her grasp of the extremely-complicated Social Security and Medicare systems have made her a go-to resource amongst her peers. Simply put, I believe she is the best in the country when it comes to helping constituents understand and access the assistance to which they are entitled. Mr. Speaker, there is no way to quantify the numbers of letters, calls and messages I have received over the years from grateful constituents who have received successful outcomes thanks to Ms. Yates' dedication and skill. Maryland's Second District will truly miss Lynn's expertise and empathy as she transitions to a well-earned retirement. On behalf of myself, Ms. Yates' coworkers and the entire Second District of Maryland, I thank her for a job well done. I will be forever grateful for her service and, most importantly, her friendship. Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me today to honor the career of Ms. Lynn Yates and her commitment to public service.
28	I rise today to honor the life of Tom Minnery, who passed away on Christmas Eve. Tom will be remembered most for his devotion to his family and to God. As one of the greatest champions of family values our country has ever known, I am proud to have called him a friend. In 1987, Tom co-founded Citizen magazine with Dr. James Dobson, a publication dedicated to educating and encouraging Christians to become more engaged citizens. Tom cited Proverbs 11:11 in his very first column, `The good influence of godly citizens causes a city to prosper, but the moral decay of the wicked drives it downhill.' Tom also founded and became senior vice president of Focus on the Family's department of Government and Public Policy. He positioned himself in this role as a leading voice for family values in our nation's most important conversations. This colored his founding of Citizenlink--now Family Policy Alliance--in October 2013, in which he served as CEO and president until his retirement in 2017. In retirement, he and his wife Deb prioritized spending time with their three children and seven grandchildren, even as they remained active pro-family policy advocates. Tom was a beloved member of his church--where he served as an elder--and was the recipient of several awards from local civic and church groups. This document stands as a testament to Tom's life and legacy, which so profoundly touched the lives of so many people. I pray his family finds comfort and peace, knowing they will be reunited with him again one day in the heavenly mansion in which he now resides with Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
29	I rise today to introduce the District of Columbia statehood bill, formally known as the Washington, D.C. Admission Act. This bill, which the House passed in the 116th and 117th Congresses, is the most important bill I introduce each Congress. The nearly 700,000 D.C. residents, who have all the obligations of American citizenship, including paying all federal taxes and serving in the armed forces, are denied voting representation in Congress and full local self-government. This bill would give D.C. residents the voting representation in Congress and full local self-government they have been denied for more than 220 years. To be content with less than statehood is to concede the equality of citizenship that is the birthright of D.C. residents as American citizens. Congress has a moral obligation and the constitutional authority to pass this bill. This country was founded on the principles of no taxation without representation and consent of the governed, but D.C. residents are taxed without representation and cannot consent to the laws under which they, as American citizens, must live. This bill would admit the State of Washington, Douglass Commonwealth into the Union and reduce the size of the federal district. The state would consist of the residential and commercial portions of present-day D.C., and the reduced federal district, which would remain under Congress' control, would consist of the Capitol Complex, the White House, the Supreme Court, the principal federal monuments and the National Mall area. This bill complies with the Constitution, including the Admissions Clause, the District Clause and the 23rd Amendment. The Admissions Clause gives Congress the authority to admit new states. All 37 new states were admitted by Congress. No new state was admitted by constitutional amendment. No state would have to consent to the admission of the State of Washington, D.C. The District Clause gives Congress plenary authority over the federal district and establishes a maximum size of the federal district. It does not establish a minimum size or a location of the federal district. Congress reduced the size of the federal district by 30 percent in 1846. The 23rd Amendment allows the federal district to participate in the Electoral College. This bill would repeal the enabling act for the 23rd Amendment and the 23rd Amendment would be repealed quickly. In any event, the 23rd Amendment does not establish a minimum size or a location of the federal district. The Constitution does not establish any prerequisites for new states, but Congress generally has considered three: population and resources, support for statehood and commitment to democracy. The State of Washington, D.C. would meet each. D.C.'s population is larger than that of two states, and the new state would be one of six states with a population under one million. D.C. pays more federal taxes per capita than any state and pays more federal taxes than 23 states. D.C.'s gross domestic product is larger than that of 17 states. Eighty-six percent of D.C. residents voted for statehood in 2016. In fact, D.C. residents have been fighting for voting representation in Congress and local autonomy for more than 220 years. I seek statehood for the Americans I am honored to represent. At the same time, D.C. statehood is deeply personal for me. My great- grandfather Richard Holmes, who escaped as a slave from a Virginia plantation, made it as far as D.C., a walk to freedom but not to equal citizenship. For generations, my family has been denied the rights other Americans take for granted. There are many other D.C. residents like me. I strongly urge my colleagues to support this bill.
30	I rise in recognition of Denise Roy-Palmer and her outstanding contributions over 25 years to the Wentworth Economic Development Corporation (WEDCO). Since 1996, Denise has been a tireless advocate on behalf of local businesses in the Eastern Lakes Region, where her efforts over a quarter century have turned Strafford and Carroll Counties into lively commercial hubs for locals and tourists alike. With a lifelong passion for giving back to her community, Denise embodies the value of service above self and has established WEDCO as a powerful economic driver for the region. Since 1996, Denise has made it her mission to provide small businesses with the planning and resources necessary to succeed in an increasingly competitive marketplace. Her efforts have seen over 800 jobs created during her tenure, along with the distribution of over 113 loans totaling $7,114,501 in direct lending which leveraged an additional $35,473,001 in funding. Despite her prolonged involvement with WEDCO, Denise will also be remembered for her steadfast commitment to a variety of local community initiatives, including the NH Alliance of Regional Development Corporations, the NH Economic Developers Association, Eastern Lakes Region Housing Coalition, the Wolfeboro & Farmington Economic Development Committees, Hugging Hospital Community Committee, and the advisory board for Makers Mill. Denise's indelible impact on these organizations will benefit Granite Staters for decades to come and ensure that New Hampshire businesses have the tools and guidance necessary to succeed in the 21st century. I would again like to recognize Denise's 25 years of service and thank her on behalf of the constituents of New Hampshire's First Congressional District for her commitment to ensuring that our state remains competitive and business friendly. I wish her all the best in retirement and look forward to seeing what her next chapter has in store.
31	I rise today in celebration of Mrs. Thomas's 90th birthday, which is on January 7th, Mrs. Iris Darcine Bowie (Andrew) Thomas R.N., was born on January 7, 1933, and grew up in Yellowpine, Texas. She graduated from Texas College where she was a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc., Alpha Tau Chapter in 1951. With a heart and calling for a career in nursing, she attended Provident School of Nursing., Chicago, IL. She then met a young medical student, Dr. Andrew L. Thomas, and they married on June 12, 1960. They spent their honeymoon in Ghana studying tropical diseases, and later traveled to the People's Republic of China, Syria, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia to champion the cause of providing quality medical services to all people. Always concerned about access to care, Dr. Thomas launched Project Seventy-Five in 1966, a national effort to maintain and increase the number of minority students in the healthcare field. Mrs. Thomas was also the first Black supervisor in nursing education at Michael Reese Hospital. Later, she was a teacher at the In Service Education Department at La Rabida Children's Hospital for the chronically ill, where she earned the Outstanding Nurse of the Year award. She retired from John Stroger (formerly Cook County) Hospital as Nurse Coordinator at the Referral Center in 2009. She is the mother of 2 children, Mrs. Darcine Adelia (Howard) March, Beverly Hills, CA, and Dr. Andre L'ouverture (Pamela) Thomas, Orthopedic Surgeon, Del Rio, TX. And the grandmother of 5: Andrew L. Thomas, II, D.D.S. Howard University College of Dentistry anticipated in 2024, Maiah Lynette Thomas, 2022 graduate, Howard University, Chloe Thomas, Sophomore Howard University, Lalia Thomas and Gabriel March. We have shared a fence for more than 50 years and Mrs. Thomas is the greatest neighbor I could have. On behalf of the First Congressional District of IIlinois, it is my honor and privilege to recognize Mrs. Thomas on her 90th birthday and I wish her continued health and happiness.
32	I rise today to congratulate the United States Sepak Takraw Team on winning gold medals at the 2022 International Sepaktakraw Federation (ISTAF) World Cup in Daejeon, South Korea. The team overcame many challenges and exceeded expectations when they won gold in Division 1 of the 3x3 and 4x4 tournaments. The 2022 ISTAF World Cup hosted 13 participating countries and was held from November 25-29, 2022 after originally being scheduled for 2019 but delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The United States team is coached by Jeremy Nathan Mirken, and was made up of 6 athletes of Hmong, Karen and Karenni descent: Ker Cha; Christ Blu Moo; Oo Reh; Jim Thao; John Thao and Yan Naing Soe. The team hails from 6 states across the country, and includes athletes from Saint Paul, Minnesota in the Fourth Congressional District. Sepak Takraw also known as `Kick Volleyball', is a team sport originated in Malaysia and commonly played with 2 or 4 players on a court similar to a badminton court. A popular sport in Southeast Asian countries, Sepak Takraw has slowly spread around the world and has gained popularity in Minnesota where we are proud to have a large Hmong and Karen community. The main objective of the game is to kick the ball to the other side of the net within the boundary of the opponent's team, similar to volleyball, but players are only allowed to use their feet, knees, shoulders, chest or head to get the ball over the net. Game play is described in the very name of the sport--sepak is Malay for ``kick'' while takraw is Thai for ``woven rattan ball'' which is the type of ball used in the game. United States team manager, Gao Chang, released a statement following the team's victory where he stated his hopes that the continued success of Team USA would inspire younger generations of Sepak Takraw players. While today I celebrate the athletes that brought home victory for the United States in 2022, I share in the same hope that younger generations will continue to participate in this unique sport and represent the United States into the future. Mr. Speaker, please join me in recognizing the victory of the United States Sepak Takraw Team.
33	I wish to honor the decade of dedicated and distinguished service that David Axelrod has provided to the University of Chicago as the Director of its Institute of Politics (IOP). Ten years ago, Mr. Axelrod founded the IOP with a mission to inspire, challenge, and train young people to play an active role in American civic life. In Mr. Axelrod's tenure as Director, the IOP has been exceptional in delivering upon its mission through the development of the Pritzker Fellows Program that brings established practitioners to IOP to conduct weekly seminars with students; a Career Development program that places more than 250 students each year in public service internships; a Speaker Series program that brings prominent leaders to campus for large-scale public events; and a Civic Engagement program that provides pathways for students to activate their interest in public service. Under Mr. Axelrod's energetic leadership, the IOP has become an integral part of the University of Chicago and raised the profile of both the university and region in the world of politics and public policy. As a nonpartisan institute, the IOP provides a space for thoughtful dialogue on contentious issues and has hosted leading academics, politicians, journalists, and activists from across the political spectrum. Yet, Mr. Axelrod's leadership is, perhaps, best illustrated by the countless students who have found candid guidance, thoughtful mentorship, and early career development opportunities at the IOP. What Mr. Axelrod has accomplished is exactly what people living in Illinois and beyond have come to expect from him. Since graduating from the University of Chicago, Mr. Axelrod himself never stopped being an active participant in American civic life. He got the ``bug'' for public service after seeing John F. Kennedy give a speech near his childhood home in New York City. As a young journalist at the Chicago Tribune, Mr. Axelrod covered city and state politics. After meeting Barack Obama at the University of Chicago, Mr. Axelrod became the Chief Strategist for the future president's successful come-from-behind U.S. Senate Campaign and both of President Obama's stellar presidential campaigns. As Senior Advisor to President Obama, Mr. Axelrod helped the President respond successfully to the 2008 financial crisis and usher through Congress the groundbreaking Affordable Care Act. It is not an exaggeration to say that Mr. Axelrod is one of the greatest political strategists of our time. Mr. Axelrod has utilized his vast experience and knowledge to develop the next generation of political leaders and public servants through the IOP, and his groundbreaking career serves as a guiding inspiration to the students and alumni of the university. While Mr. Axelrod's leadership will be missed, the IOP has selected a new director who also embodies the kind of dedicated public service the organization instills in students. Former U.S. Senator and incoming IOP Director Heidi Heitkamp's years in state and national politics will certainly add to the intellectual richness of the organization and build upon the foundations established by Mr. Axelrod. Mr. Speaker, I extend immense gratitude to Mr. Axelrod for his esteemed service and look forward to his legacy being carried forward by the rising leaders he has supported and inspired.
34	I rise today to remember the massive impact Brother Fred Wolfe had not only on the City of Mobile, but the thousands of individuals across the country who had the opportunity to meet him and spend time with him. Brother Fred was more than a pastor to me. He was my friend, my mentor, and my spiritual guidance for decades. Brother Fred had so many wise sayings, and I'll always remember him telling me, ``You went through what you went through, and people need to know that, so they know they can get past it too.'' These words remind us that we all have a story to tell, and our stories matter. God called Brother Fred to ministry during his study at the University of South Carolina. He went to work immediately, spending many of his days serving in small churches surrounding the university. Brother Fred went on to complete his Master of Divinity at Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Fort Worth, Texas, and later received an honorary Doctor of Divinity from what would become the University of Mobile. Brother Fred's pastoral career took him to numerous church establishments across the country, from his native South Carolina, to North Carolina, Texas, Georgia, and finally Alabama. He eventually settled in Mobile as pastor of Cottage Hill Baptist Church. Under the guidance of his 25 years there, the church saw attendance grow by thousands of members, and welcomed 5,500 baptisms. Brother Fred's ministry left a legacy of faithful service to his community. While we deeply mourn his passing, we have no doubt he heard ``well done, my good and faithful servant'' when he met the Lord face to face. His service and love did not disappear when he took his final breath on earth. It is the priceless gift he gave all of us to sustain us until we meet again.
35	I rise today to recognize the Loudoun County Chamber of Commerce on achieving 5-Star Accreditation status from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Incorporated on December 18, 1968, the Loudoun County Chamber of Commerce has become the largest and most effective Chamber in Northern Virginia, with more than 1,000 members forming the premier network of business and community leaders in the nation's most economically vibrant county. The Loudoun Chamber's diverse membership includes businesses, nonprofits and public-sector partners of every size and industry, and includes visionary entrepreneurs and leaders who are dedicated to making Loudoun a world-class community to live, work, and grow a business. The Loudoun Chamber is an effective advocate for and partner with Loudoun's Department of Economic Development and Visit Loudoun, a partnership that has earned local, national and international recognition, the latter for their collaboration on the ``Loudoun Is Ready'' COVID response campaign. The Association of Chamber of Commerce Executives (ACCE)--the nation's leading association for Chamber industry executives--named the Loudoun County Chamber one of 4 finalists for Chamber of the Year in 2021, recognizing Loudoun's Chamber for its performance and community impact. Loudoun Chamber President & CEO Tony Howard has earned highly valued industry certifications from the U.S. Chamber's Institute for Organizational Management (IOM) and ACCE's Certified Chamber Executive (CCE), the Chamber industry's top recognition for professional excellence. Howard was also named Virginia's Chamber Executive of the Year in 2015, by the Virginia Association of Chamber of Commerce Executives (VACCE). ln recognition of the Loudoun Chamber of Commerce's many years of industry leading programs, business advocacy and community impact, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce awarded the Loudoun Chamber 5-Star Accreditation. This 5-Star Accreditation is the U.S. Chamber's highest endorsement for a local Chamber's performance. This places the Loudoun Chamber amongst the top 2 percent the 7,000 Chambers nationwide for the quality of its programs, policies and impact on the community. U.S. Chamber's Accreditation Program establishes standards for operational excellence and recognizes Chambers that achieve ``best in class performance'' in areas such as governance policies, financial controls, communications, public policy and programming. This extensive review took 6 months to complete. ``To earn our industry's highest distinction is reflective of the Loudoun Chamber's staffs and leadership's commitment to excellence in all your organization does to serve your community,'' said U.S. Chamber Vice President Raymond P. Towle.
36	I rise to celebrate Prior Lake Police Chief Steve Frazer and his 34 years of public service and congratulate him on his retirement. Chief Frazer's dedication to public safety and community service has been vital to Minnesota's Second Congressional District. His law enforcement record spans decades and multiple departments including the St. Paul Police Department, Roseville Police Department, Ramsey County Sheriffs Office, and Prior Lake Police Department. Chief Frazer retired after three and a half years as the Prior Lake Police Chief. He oversaw a plan to bring the department to full staffing levels and increase officer morale. Chief Frazer also formalized officer training with a focus on de-escalation. It is an honor to have worked with Chief Frazer and I wish him well in his retirement.
37	Will the gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. Wilson) come forward and lead the House in the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. WILSON of South Carolina led the Pledge of Allegiance as follows: I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
38	I thank my good friend, the distinguished majority leader, Mr. Scalise, for yielding. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern), my good friend, pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume. During consideration of this resolution, all time is yielded for the purpose of debate only. General Leave
39	I include in the Record the section-by-section analysis of the resolution. H. Res. 5 Adopting the Rules for the 118th Congress Section-by-Section Analysis Section 1. Adoption of the Rules of the One Hundred Seventeenth Congress. This section provides that the Rules of the 117th Congress are the Rules of the 118th Congress, except for the amendments contained in section 2 of the resolution and orders contained in the resolution. Section 2. Changes to the Standing Rules. Initiatives to Reduce Spending and Improve Accountability. Subsection (a)(l) replaces current ``pay-as-you-go'' requirements with ``cut-as-you-go'' requirements. The provision prohibits consideration of a bill, joint resolution, conference report, or amendment that has the net effect of increasing mandatory spending within a five-year or ten-year budget window. This provision continues the current practice of counting multiple measures considered pursuant to a special order of business which directs the Clerk to engross the measures together after passage for purposes of compliance with the rule and provides a mechanism for addressing ``emergency'' designations. Subsection (a)(2) strikes the ``Gephardt rule'' that provides for the automatic engrossment and transmittal to the Senate of a joint resolution changing the public debt limit, upon the adoption by the House of a concurrent resolution on the budget resolution, thereby avoiding a separate vote in the House on the public debt limit legislation. Subsection (a)(3) restores a point of order against net increase in budget authority for amendments to general appropriations bills. Subsection (a)(4) restores a point of order against budget reconciliation directives that increase net direct spending. Increased Threshold for Tax Rate Increases. Subsection (b) restores a requirement for a three-fifths supermajority vote on tax rate increases. Two Minute Votes. Subsection (c) provides that the Speaker can reduce vote times in the House to not less than two minutes on any question that follows another electronic vote. The subsection also states that to the maximum extent practicable, advance notice will be given when reduced voting times are expected in a voting series. Modifications to Calendar Wednesday. Subsection (d) modifies the notice requirement to use Calendar Wednesday to conform with the 72-hour notice requirement prior to consideration of legislation. Committee Authorization and Oversight Plans. Subsection (e) restores the requirement that each standing committee (except the Committees on Appropriations, Ethics, and Rules) vote to adopt an authorization and oversight plan, which must be submitted to the Committees on Oversight and Accountability and House Administration no later than March 1 of the first session of a Congress. The plan must include a list of unauthorized programs and agencies within the committee's jurisdiction that have received funding in the prior fiscal year, or in the case of a permanent authorization, have not received a comprehensive review by the committee in the prior three Congresses. The subsection requires committees to describe each program or agency that is intended to be authorized in the current Congress or next Congress, and a description of oversight to support reauthorization in the current Congress. The subsection also requires the plan include any recommendations for moving such programs or agencies from mandatory to discretionary funding. When developing these plans, committee chairs must coordinate with other committees of jurisdiction to ensure that programs and agencies are subject to routine authorization efforts. The subsection also provides that committee authorization and oversight plans may make recommendations to consolidate or terminate duplicative or unnecessary programs and agencies. Committees may make recommendations for changes to existing law to address Federal rules, regulations, statutes, and court decisions related to programs that are inconsistent with Congress' Article I authorities, as well as provide a description of other oversight activities that may be necessary. The subsection also requires the Committee on Oversight and Accountability to report to the House no later than April 15 the authorization and oversight plans submitted by committees together with any recommendations it may make to ensure effective coordination of the plans. Cost Estimates for Major Legislation to Include Macroeconomic Effects. Subsection (f) restores the requirement that the Congressional Budget Office and Joint Committee on Taxation, to the extent practicable, incorporate the macroeconomic effects of major legislation into the official cost estimates used for enforcing the budget resolution and other rules of the House. The subsection requires, to the extent practicable, a qualitative assessment of the long-term budgetary and macroeconomic effects of major legislation, which is defined to cover legislation that causes a gross budgetary effect in any fiscal year covered by the budget resolution that is equal to or greater than 0.25 percent of the projected GDP for that year. This subsection also allows the chair of the Committee on the Budget, or in the case of revenue legislation the House member serving as the Chair or Vice Chair of the Joint Committee on Taxation, to designate major legislation for purposes of this rule. Ethics Reform. Subsection (g) directs the Committee on Ethics to adopt rules which provide for a process to receive complaints directly from the public. Empaneling Investigative Subcommittee of the Committee on Ethics. Subsection (h) codifies House Resolution 451, 110th Congress, directing the Committee on Ethics to empanel an investigative subcommittee or issue a report within 30 days of the date a Member, Delegate, or the Resident Commissioner is indicted, or criminal charges are filed. Treatment of Evidence in Committee and Subcommittee Investigations. Subsection (i) eliminates a requirement that the Committee on Ethics adopt a rule allowing the use during an ethics investigation of evidence presented in a related criminal case where the respondent was convicted because this is already contained in the committee rules of the Committee on Ethics. Designating Committee on Oversight and Accountability. Subsection (j) redesignates the Committee on Oversight and Reform as the Committee on Oversight and Accountability. Designating Committee on Education and the Workforce. Subsection (k) redesignates the Committee on Education and Labor as the Committee on Education and the Workforce. Subcommittees of Committee on Agriculture. Subsection (1) permits the Committee on Agriculture to have six subcommittees, codifying a separate order in effect since the 114th Congress. Cybersecurity. Subsection (m) modifies the jurisdiction of the Committee on Homeland Security to include functions of the Department of Homeland Security related to cybersecurity. Committees currently holding jurisdiction over cybersecurity functions of DHS will retain a shared jurisdictional interest in such functions. Scope of Authority to Act in Continuing Litigation Matters. Subsection (n) eliminates ``including, but not limited to, the issuance of subpoenas'' in the description of authority to act as successor-in-interest in continuing litigation matters, such language being superfluous. Record Votes on Measures Reported by the Committee on Rules. Subsection (o) requires reports from the Committee on Rules to include a depiction of recorded votes. Access to the Hall of the House. Subsection (p) strikes language providing Governors of Territories and the Mayor of the District of Columbia access to the Hall of the House. Resolution Declaring the Office of Speaker Vacant. Subsection (q) strikes language from rule IX to allow any member to offer a privileged resolution declaring the Office of Speaker vacant. Section 3. Separate Orders. Holman Rule. Subsection (a) reinstates the ``Holman Rule'' which allows amendments to appropriations legislation that would reduce the salary of or fire specific federal employees, or cut a specific program. Restoring Legislative Branch Accountability. Subsection (b) states regulations adopted pursuant to House Resolution 1096, 117th Congress will have no force or effect in the 118th Congress. Requirement with Respect to Single Subject Bill. Subsection (c) provides that, effective February 1, 2023, a bill or joint resolution may not be introduced unless the sponsor submits a statement setting forth the single subject of the bill or joint resolution. This statement must be included with the statement required by clause 7(c) of rule XII (Constitutional Authority Statements). A statement for any bill or joint resolution introduced prior to the effective date shall, to the extent practicable, be submitted by the sponsor prior to committee or House consideration. Question of Consideration for Germanenes. Subsection (d) establishes a question of consideration on a special rule that waives germaneness for an amendment. The question of consideration is debatable for 20 minutes and is not subject to any intervening motion. Budget Matter. Subsection (e)(l)(A) provides the authority for the chair of the Committee on the Budget to file allocations, aggregates, and other appropriate budgetary levels for the purpose of enforcing provisions of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. Additionally, this subsection states that the provisions of S. Con. Res. 14, 117th Congress shall have no force or effect. Subsection (e)(l)(B) provides adjustment authority to the chair of the Committee on the Budget for a bill, joint resolution, amendment thereto, or conference report thereon if the measure does not increase direct spending over five or ten years. It additionally provides adjustment authority to the chair of the Committee on the Budget to take into account the most recent baseline published by the Congressional Budget Office. Subsection (e)(1)(C) allows the Majority Leader or his designee, should the chair of the Committee on the Budget not yet be elected, to file statements permitted under subsections (f)(1)(A) and (f)(1)(B). Subsection (e)(1)(D) allows the chair of the Committee on the Budget (or the Majority Leader or his designee, should the chair not yet be elected) to adjust an estimate under clause 4 of rule XXIX to exempt the budgetary effects of measures to protect taxpayers with taxable incomes below $400,000 from an increase in audits above the most recent tax year from the Internal Revenue Service. Subsection (e)(2) establishes a point of order against consideration of a bill or joint resolution reported by a committee (other than the Committee on Appropriations) or an amendment thereto, or a conference report thereon, which has the net effect of increasing direct spending in excess of $2,500,000,000 for any of the four consecutive 10 fiscal year periods beginning with the first fiscal year that is 10 fiscal years after the current fiscal year. The levels of net increases in direct spending shall be determined based on estimates provided by the chair of the Committee on the Budget. Subsection (e)(3) requires the Congressional Budget Office on any legislation that shows changes in mandatory spending which cause a gross budgetary effect in any fiscal year covered by the budget resolution that is equal to or greater than 0.25 percent of the projected GDP for the current fiscal year, to the extent practicable, to provide an estimate of the inflationary impacts of that legislation. This subsection also allows the chair of the Committee on the Budget to designate major legislation for purposes of this order. Subsection (e)(4) requires the Congressional Budget Office on any legislation impacting either the Medicare Part A trust fund or OASDI trust fund that causes a gross budgetary effect in any fiscal year covered by the budget resolution that is equal to or greater than 0.25 percent of the projected GDP for the current fiscal year, to the extent practicable, to display: (1) the impact of legislation on the Medicare Part A trust fund's unfunded liabilities over a 25-year projection, solvency projections, and the net present value of those liabilities; and (2) the impact on the OASDI trust fund's unfunded liabilities over a 75-year projection, solvency projections, and the net present value of those liabilities. This subsection also allows the chair of the Committee on the Budget to designate major legislation for purposes of this order. Spending Reduction Amendments in Appropriations Bills. Subsection (f) provides for spending reduction account transfer amendments and requires a spending reduction account section to be included in all general appropriations bills. Scoring Conveyances of Federal Land. Subsection (g) reinstates the separate order from the 115th Congress providing that any provision in a bill, joint resolution, amendment, or conference report requiring or authorizing a conveyance of federal land to a State, local government, or tribal entity, shall not be considered as providing new budget authority, decreasing revenues, increasing mandatory spending, or increasing outlays. Member Day Hearing Requirement. Subsection (h) modifies the Member Day hearing requirement to only occur at the full committee level. Each standing committee (other than the Committee on Ethics) must hold a Member Day Hearing during the first session of the 118th Congress to receive testimony from Members, Delegates, and the Resident Commissioner on proposed legislation within its jurisdiction. The subsection permits the Committee on Rules to hold its Member Day Hearing during the second session to receive testimony on proposed changes to the standing rules for the next Congress. Information to Committees of Congress on Request. Subsection (i) requires that the chair of the Committee on Oversight and Accountability be included as one of the seven members of the committee making any request of an Executive agency pursuant to section 2954 of title 5, United States Code. Remote Appearance of Witnesses. Subsection (j) provides limited authorization to a chair of a committee to allow witnesses to appear remotely at committee and subcommittee proceedings. This subsection applies only to witnesses appearing in a non-governmental capacity and in accordance with regulations issued by the chair of the Committee on Rules and printed in the Congressional Record. Deposition Authority. Subsection (k) provides the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and each standing committee of the 118th Congress (except for the Committee on Rules) the authority to order the taking of a deposition by a member or counsel of such committee and limits persons who can attend depositions to members, committee staff, an official reporter, the witness, and up to two, personal, nongovernmental attorneys. Depositions taken under this authority are subject to regulations issued by the chair of the Committee on Rules and printed in the Congressional Record. Broadening Availability and Utility of Legislative Documents in Machine-Readable Formats. Subsection (l) instructs the Committee on House Administration, the Clerk, an other officers and officials to advance government transparency by continuing efforts to publish documents of the House in machinereadable formats and broaden their utility by enabling all House staff to create comparative prints. Improving the Committee Electronic Document Repository. Subsection (m) directs the Clerk, the Committee on House Administration, and other officers and officials to continue to improve the existing electronic document repository operated by the Clerk for use by committees. Such improvements are intended to increase public availability and identification of legislative information produced by House committees, including votes, amendments, and witness disclosure forms. Providing for Transparency with Respect to Memorials Submitted Pursuant to Article V of the Constitution of the United States. Subsection (n) carries forward provisions that clarify the procedures of the House regarding the receipt of Article V memorials from the States by directing the Clerk to make each memorial, designated by the chair of the Committee on the Judiciary, electronically available, organized by State of origin and year of receipt, and indicate whether the memorial was designated as an application or rescission. In carrying out this subsection, it is expected that the chair of the Committee on the Judiciary will be solely charged with determining whether a memorial purports to be an application of the legislature of a state calling for a constitutional convention or rescission of prior applications. The Clerk's role will be entirely administrative. The chair of the Committee on the Judiciary will only designate memorials from state legislatures (and not petitions from individuals or other parties), as it is only state legislatures that are contemplated under Article V of the Constitution. In submitting each memorial to the Clerk, the chair of the Committee on the Judiciary will include a transmission letter that indicates it has been designated under this subsection. The Clerk will make publicly available the memorial and the transmission letter from the chair. Ancillary documentation from the state or other parties is not expected to be publicized. War Powers Resolution. Subsection (o) continues a separate order from the 117th Congress expressly providing that any motion to discharge a measure introduced pursuant to section 6 or section 7 of the War Powers Resolution is not subject to a motion to table. Further Expenses for Resolving Contested Elections. Subsection (p) authorizes such sums as may be necessary for the Committee on House Administration to resolve contested elections. Funds shall be available for expenses incurred between January 3, 2023, and January 3, 2024. Amounts made available under this subsection shall be expended in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Committee on House Administration. Ethics Reform. Subsection (q) directs the Speaker to establish a bipartisan task force to conduct a comprehensive review of House ethics rules and regulations. The task force is directed to submit a report to the Speaker, Majority Leader, Minority Leader, and chair and ranking minority members of the Committees on Ethics and Rules. Exercise Facilities for Former Members. Subsection (r) continues the prohibition on access to any exercise facility that is made available exclusively to Members, Delegates, the Resident Commissioner, former Members, former Delegates, former Resident Commissioners, officers, and former officers of the House and their spouses to any former Member, former Delegate, former Resident Commissioner, former officer, or spouse who is a lobbyist registered under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 or any successor statute, or who is an agent of a foreign principal as defined in clause 5 of rule
40	again, thank my friend from Oklahoma for yielding. Mr. Speaker, we are here to discuss the rules of the House, actually to debate the rules package. Why this is so important is because this lays out the ability for the House to conduct business, for the House to not only conduct business, but for the House to address the problems that the American people across this country face. Let's just be very clear up front. We saw a lot of debate about this last week. At the heart of all of the discussions last week was very clear, surely from our side, that Washington is broken. Not just is Washington broken, but the way that this House has been running for the last few years has not been designed to address the problems of the people across this country. In fact, we have seen many of the problems that families are facing across America created by the things that have come out of this Congress signed by President Biden. Why is inflation running away? Because spending is out of control, because bills appear by dark of night, bills that nobody has read that are thousands of pages long, where Members aren't even allowed to give input in committee or on the floor to address problems they know their constituents will face if these bills pass. Yet, the bills are passed because they are written in rooms behind closed doors by a small number of people, not concerned about the consequences that will affect so many millions of people across this Nation. Mr. Speaker, for a long time, we have been saying this needs to change. In fact, we ran on an agenda to change the way that Washington works, to fix this broken system, to get our country back on track, and we were awarded the majority by the people across this country. Today starts that process of fixing what is broken in Washington so that Washington can finally start working for the people of this country who are struggling. Let's start with one basic thing: reopening the people's House. For years, the American people were shut out of coming and seeing their government work. In fact, with proxy voting, which, by the way, ends in this rules package, Members of Congress have to show up and work again. Just look at the bill that passed a few weeks ago, the omnibus spending bill, $1.7 trillion, mostly borrowed from countries like China. You look at all the things that had absolutely nothing to do with the general operations of government that were thrown in that. Now, you can start looking at it today, but you surely couldn't look it the day of the vote because very few people had an opportunity to read it, over 4,000 pages dumped by dark of night, right before the vote. Yes, a majority of this Congress voted by proxy on that bill. They weren't even here showing up to vote. You know what? Americans all across the country have to show up to vote. They have to go to their worksite. They can't work remotely. In fact, Congress doesn't work virtually. It is just not set up that way. Yet, that is what we have seen the last 2 years; committees that don't even meet in person. There are some committees that haven't had an in- person hearing for 2 years. We end that practice in this rules package, where committees actually have to get to work again, not only meeting in person but in some cases going out into the field, going into the real world, places like the border between United States and Mexico, where, yes, despite the President's claim, there is a crisis at the border. We have been talking about it for a long time. We have been trying to bring legislation, but that legislation has been rejected by a top-down structure. This rules package changes that so we can finally start bringing bills to the floor to address things like the border crisis, to finally start addressing inflation and runaway spending. If a Member of Congress has an idea and they want to bring an amendment to the floor, for so long they were shut out of that ability. We had a bill that was over $4 trillion in spending and taxes that was brought through multiple committees in Congress, and not one amendment was allowed to be brought forward and passed. In fact, even the majority was told in the committees: Don't allow a single amendment to pass on a bill dealing with trillions of dollars in taxes and spending that is crushing families across America. Let's make Congress work for families again. Let's empower Members of Congress to be able to represent their constituents. We were all elected by, on average, about 750,000 people. For too long, each of the Members of Congress, Republican or Democrat, were denied the ability in so many different ways because the rules were structured to shut their ability down from representing their districts unless they were in a leadership position. That has to change, and under this rules package, that finally does change. Let's make this Congress work for the people who sent us here. We are, after all, the people's House. It is about time we start acting like it. Let's pass this rules package, get to work addressing the needs of the American people. Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of this important piece of legislation.
41	I thank the gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. Cole) for yielding me the customary 30 minutes, and I yield myself such time as I may consume. Mr. Speaker, first, let me congratulate our incredible new House Democratic leadership team: Hakeem Jeffries, Katherine Clark, and Pete Aguilar. It is a dawn of a new day here in Congress, as a new generation takes on the solemn responsibility of leadership. Leader Jeffries has been tireless in his work to put people over politics. His steady leadership as chair of our Democratic Caucus, uniting our Members, harnessing their talent and diversity, and fighting tirelessly to make life better for American people is a source of inspiration for me and so many others. It is also a privilege to be here with my good friend Tom Cole, someone who I respect greatly and who I know greatly respects this institution. We sit on opposite ends of the dais, but I admire Mr. Cole's leadership and the example he sets. Even when we don't see eye to eye, I am proud of our work to build an atmosphere of respectful dialogue on the Rules Committee. We have done so not just among our Members but among our hardworking staff, and I thank our minority and majority staff, led by Don Sisson and Kelly Dixon, for all of their hard work. I look forward to working with Mr. Cole and his team this Congress to continue our collaboration on issues of shared concern. Mr. Speaker, as Leader Jeffries put it so succinctly this weekend, our Republican friends campaigned on the claim that they would fight against inflation and fight for the American people. Instead, all they have done is come to Washington and fight with each other. In fact, what has become crystal clear over the past few days is the extent to which the Republican Party has been hijacked by an extremist MAGA faction, a faction not interested in governing but in their own egos, a faction not interested in compromise but in their own power, a faction not interested in putting people over politics but instead interested in putting their own political ambition over the people we serve. Now here we are, nearly a week later, considering their deeply flawed rules package, the first legislation on the floor by this new majority, and they are using it to gut the Office of Congressional Ethics, attack women's access to abortion, make it easier for big oil companies to pollute, and interfere in ongoing criminal investigations into President Trump. They are making it easier for billionaires and big corporations to avoid paying their taxes. Is that part of their contract with America? Is that their big plan to help everyday people? Because most people who read this package would think it must be a joke. What I am concerned about is not just what is written down here. I am concerned by the backroom deals that Speaker McCarthy made with the Freedom Caucus in exchange for their votes. Like Republican Congresswoman Nancy Mace said just this weekend: ``We don't have any idea what promises were made.'' This is unconscionable. We are only 1 week into this, and this is how they are running this place. There is a report out by Punchbowl News, and let me read it. It said: ``There is also a secret 3-page addendum that McCarthy and his allies hashed out during several days of grueling negotiations with the House Freedom Caucus. This pact includes the most controversial concessions McCarthy made in order to become Speaker--three seats on the Rules Committee for conservatives, freezing spending at FY 2022 levels, a debt ceiling strategy, coveted committee assignments, and more.'' Is that what the Majority Leader meant when he talked about a new day and transparency? These rules are not a serious attempt at governing. They are essentially a ransom note to America from the extreme right. The same Members of Congress who held this body hostage last week are the ones who ran interference for the January 6 insurrectionists, who tried to overturn a free and fair election. Even the new Speaker of the House voted to overturn the 2020 elections. We couldn't even get a public acknowledgment from him on the 2-year anniversary of that horrific day, not even a tweet. It is clear that Republicans welcomed the election deniers into their ranks with open arms, and now they are reaping what they have sown. The insurrectionists are in charge. I am reminded of the words of President Kennedy: ``In the past, those who foolishly sought power by riding the back of the tiger ended up inside.'' The American people get it. They rejected extremism in the last two elections. That is why they picked Joe Biden, and that is why the red wave turned into a pink splash. My Republican friends still aren't listening, and in fact, they are still empowering the extremists. Don't take my word for it. Let's go through their rules package. They are giving a single Member the ability to remove the Speaker at any time, letting a small, far-right faction hold their leadership hostage. They are trying to shut down criminal investigations into the former President's wrongdoing. They are making it easier to slash taxes on billionaire corporations while dismantling the social safety net. They are giving committee chairs unbalanced discretion over which witnesses can testify; rejecting pandemic safety procedures like remote voting; trying to force an end to congressional staff unionization; and the icing on the cake, a new subcommittee to push QAnon conspiracies and launch fake investigations into nonexistent scandals. What is next, a rule requiring we all wear tinfoil hats? This package is disrespectful, not just to this institution, but to the people who sent us here to govern. Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``no'' vote, and I reserve the balance of my time.
42	I begin by thanking my good friend from Massachusetts for his leadership of the Rules Committee over the last 4 years. While we certainly haven't always agreed, we have tried to always be agreeable while working with one another. I certainly associate myself with his remarks about the terrific work of the staff on both sides of the aisle for helping us facilitate the operation of the House over that 4-year period. I look forward again to working with my friend in the years ahead. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to offer the rules resolution that will govern the House during the 118th Congress. Determining the rules we will follow is one of the first and most consequential decisions we must make as a body at the beginning of each Congress. In many ways, the Rules of the House of Representatives serve to demonstrate where our priorities and values lie as an institution. Make no mistake, the priorities of the new Republican majority are fully on display in this resolution. First and foremost, Mr. Speaker, we are taking action to reopen the people's House and ensure that we, the people's elected servants, are here in Washington, D.C., doing our jobs. For far too long, the House allowed Members to do their jobs from home without ever setting foot in Washington. What started out as a pandemic accommodation lasted far longer than necessary, but today, even President Biden admits that the pandemic is over. It is time for the House of Representatives to return to our normal operating procedures, and it is time for the Members of Congress to actually show up to work. Today's rules package eliminates proxy voting and puts an end to remote committee proceedings. We restore the requirement for committees to establish plans for how they will conduct much-needed oversight. Republicans have robust plans to ensure that we will hold the Biden administration accountable for its actions, but being a counterbalance to the administration will not stop there. With today's rules package, we will also establish a new select subcommittee, modeled on the Church Committee, to investigate the radical left's weaponization of the Federal Government in recent years. We will also modify the jurisdiction of the Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Pandemic to ensure we investigate the origins of the virus and finally look into the financial and societal impacts of shutdowns. We will establish a Select Committee on Strategic Competition Between the United States and the Chinese Communist Party to respond to threats posed by the CCP, ensure economic competitiveness for America, and protect human rights. Other important changes in this resolution are those that are designed to address our out-of-control spending problem, which the former majority made vastly worse last Congress. In fact, when Democrats were in control of this Chamber, they spent so much money through partisan bills that they managed to drive this country into an inflationary crisis. Those aren't my words; those are the words of former Clinton Treasury Secretary Larry Summers. The American people elected Republicans to get our fiscal house in order, and get our fiscal house in order we will. That starts with making key changes to House rules to ensure we will instill some fiscal sanity in Congress. These changes reflect a return to budgetary rules that were in place for over a decade before Democrats removed them. We will restore the CutGo rule, which requires us to offset any increase in mandatory spending with a corresponding cut in mandatory spending. No more will the House be able to use budget gimmicks and tricks to pretend increases in mandatory spending are paid for when they actually are not. We will restore a requirement for a three-fifths majority to approve any tax rate increase. If this rule had been in place, the House would not have passed the massive tax increases the Democrats included in last year's reconciliation bill. We will eliminate the so-called Gephardt rule, which allows the House to automatically suspend the debt ceiling upon passage of a budget resolution. Just as the American people have to live within their means, so, too, should the Federal Government. Automatically suspending the debt limit may be the easy and expedient way, but on a matter as important as the national debt limit, what is easy and expedient is hardly appropriate. The American people expect us to make a decision on the national debt limit only after full and fair consideration and debate in the House. That starts with ensuring it will receive a separate, standalone vote on the floor. Finally, we will remove the rule that allowed Democrats to simply ignore budget estimates for bills dealing with the COVID pandemic or climate change. Although it may sound controversial to my friends on the other side of the aisle, Republicans cannot and will not thrust our heads in the sand and ignore the effects of out-of-control Federal spending. Mr. Speaker, I could go on and on, but on the whole, I am very proud of today's rule package. It reflects Republican priorities and the priorities of the voters who elected us. It reopens this institution and ensures that all Members will be in Washington to do their work, as our constituents expect. It ensures that we will hold the Biden administration and the Chinese Communist Party accountable. It ensures that we will get our fiscal house in order. Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to support the rules package, and I reserve the balance of my time.
43	I include in the Record a Congressional Budget Office report from today titled: ``Estimated Budgetary Effects of H.R. 23, the Family and Small Business Taxpayer Protection Act.'' This nonpartisan report says that the GOP's IRS funding bill will add $114 billion to the national debt, so when people talk about taking steps to reduce the national debt, I am not sure what they are talking about. [From the Congressional Budget Office, January 9, 2023] Estimated Budgetary Effects of H.R. 23, the Family and Small Business Taxpayer Protection Act Summary: The Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 establishes budget-reporting and enforcement procedures for legislation affecting direct spending or revenues. The net changes in outlays and revenues that are subject to those procedures are shown above. The Congressional Budget Office adheres to laws and Congressional rules concerning the federal budget and to a set of principles (called the Scorekeeping Guidelines) created by the Congress. Those principles guide how the House and Senate Budget Committees, the Congressional Budget Office, and the Office of Management and Budget attribute budgetary effects to legislation, with the goal of promoting consistent treatment of estimated effects among those agencies. (For more information on those guidelines, see Congressional Budget Office, CBO Explains Budgetary Scorekeeping Guidelines, January 2021, www.cbo.gov/ publication/56507.) When a provision in an authorization bill provides funding for administrative or program management activities, such as when the IRS receives additional funding for administrative activities, spending of those amounts can result in increases in receipts. Guideline 14, however, directs scorekeepers to exclude those increases when estimating the budgetary effects of proposals that would provide additional mandatory funding for such activities. Guideline 14 was adopted in part to avert cases in which possible, but uncertain, receipts were used to offset near- term increases in spending resulting from the same bill. That guideline is asymmetrical, however. That is, even though increased receipts cannot be credited to a bill that would increase administrative funding, estimated receipt losses that might result from a decrease in such funding are included in the estimated budgetary effects. H.R. 23 would rescind unobligated funds provided by paragraphs (1)(A)(ii), (1)(A)(iii), (1)(B), (2), (3), (4), and (5) of section 10301 of Public Law 117-169. CBO estimates that the bill would decrease outlays by $71 billion and decrease receipts by $186 billion over the 2023-2032 period. Both of those effects are included in accordance with Guideline 14.
44	Americans across the country sent a resounding message at the ballot box. They support the right to access abortion and for people to have the basic freedom to make decisions about their own bodies with medical professionals and without the interference of extremist politicians. In every State where abortion was on the ballot, the American people called for freedom and bodily autonomy. Now, House Democrats' first action of the 118th Congress is to answer that call. If we defeat the previous question today, the House will take up my bill, the Women's Health Protection Act, which will guarantee abortion rights for everyone in every State. In the wake of the extremist Supreme Court's devastating decision last summer in Dobbs, Congress must stand up for the rights of every person to be able to make decisions about their own bodies and their own futures. House Democrats trust people, not politicians, to make decisions about their health and lives. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in defeating the previous question.
45	let me just say at the outset, Mr. Cole has probably had the hardest job in Washington the past 4 years. Being the ranking member of the Rules Committee is a difficult position. He has done it extremely well, so I know he is going to excel as the chairman of the Rules Committee during this term of Congress. Clearly, Mr. Speaker, the American public spoke with a clear voice. They want the Nation to go in a new direction. They want a path away from tax-and-spend politics advanced by the Democrats in the last Congress. In this rules package, we have laid out how we intend to accomplish just that. The era of legislating for the few at the expense of the many is over. This new majority today begins this serious task in ways that will make this Congress more transparent, more accountable, and more accessible to the public and the Members that serve the institution. This majority will implement voting procedures on the floor so that recorded votes can be conducted in a straightforward manner, rather than what we have seen over the past 3 years that literally strands Members of Congress on the floor for hours when they cannot do any other work in their committee or anywhere else. Mr. Speaker, I believe our friends in the previous Congress squandered their opportunity by focusing on the politics of division instead of what we were all sent here to do, and that is the people's business. Tackle inflation, tackle lawlessness, the threats abroad--these are the urgent issues that the American public demands that their Representatives address. Instead, Americans were treated to the petty and divisive agenda of the last Congress. Thankfully, Mr. Speaker, Republicans will utilize this majority. Republicans have proposed an agenda that will address these vital issues and put our Nation back on track to fiscal prosperity. With this Republican majority, we offer Americans a governing agenda that will ensure that the 21st century remains an American century.
46	if there was any overriding issue of clarity in the last election it was that Americans feel strongly that they should have the freedom to make their own healthcare decisions, not politicians. Apparently, House Republicans weren't listening because just 2 months after a record number of Americans voted to vehemently oppose the GOP's efforts to criminalize abortion care in this country, we have today a set of rules that will make their extreme agenda a reality. These rules will pave the way for the immediate passage of not one, not two, but three bills that will limit women's rights to reproductive care. Mr. Speaker, 25 percent of their initial agenda is anti-choice. This is not what the American people want. Sixty-one percent of this country strongly support a women's right to abortion care. Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to stand up to this extremism and stand up for the people who we were elected to serve. Vote ``no'' on the previous question to bring up the Women's Health Protection Act and vote ``no'' on the rule. Let's listen to our constituents.
47	I thank the chairman of the Rules Committee and my friend from Oklahoma for yielding me the time and for the experiences we have had on Rules in the last year. Mr. Speaker, for far too long Democrats have run roughshod over the norms and practices of the people's House, weaponizing our rules to insulate themselves and protect their allies in the Biden administration from proper oversight. That ends today. I thank the chairman, Speaker McCarthy, and our leadership for spending countless hours putting together this package that better reflects the historical practices of this institution while receiving feedback to ensure the work we do is by the people and for the people. There are numerous items that I truly believe are vast improvements from the previous 2 years, but I will focus on three. First and foremost, this package finally ends the ludicrous pandemic procedures that have done lasting, if not permanent, damage to this institution. Legislating requires us to see each other eye-to-eye in order to understand where the other is coming from. Remote proceedings and a locked-down Capitol have reduced this institution to a computer screen, and the work product has deteriorated as a result. It is long past time for us to get back to work. Second, the rules package finally creates a more transparent process by which we legislate. As then-Chairman McGovern once said, ``a lousy process leads to bad legislating.'' Today, through a mandatory 72-hour rule, we allow more thoughtful and deliberate consideration that will improve what we pass out of this House. Finally, this rules package helps restore some fiscal sanity. Over the past 2 years, the American people have been hindered by out-of- control spending by the government and now our constituents are saddled with trillions in debt and the highest inflation levels in a generation. House Republicans today will once again ensure the Federal budget operates like any other, requiring offsets for any additional spending increase, eliminating budget gimmicks, and requiring inflationary analyses of the bills we consider. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to stand by my friend and colleague from Oklahoma in support of this package, and I urge Members to do the same.
48	let me just remind my friends that over a million Americans died of COVID, including a Member-elect who was supposed to be sworn in in the last Congress. These remote procedures undoubtedly saved lives of Members and staff here in this Chamber. So, please, let's not diminish what the point of all that was about. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from Washington (Ms. Jayapal).
49	after a week of chaos, we now have a rules package for MAGA extremists, attacking our freedoms and every major responsibility of this body--from paying America's bills to funding our government. This package criminalizes abortion by advancing bills that attack access and healthcare without a single hearing or markup, undermining women's economic freedom and bodily autonomy. Mr. Speaker, as one of the one-in-four women across this country who have had an abortion, I join those in both parties--and the majority of this country--who are saying: Not on our watch. This package also reinstates a CutGo policy that gives wealthy corporations more tax cuts and strips the right for congressional workers to unionize. It eliminates our wins to strengthen witness disclosure requirements for conflicts of interest and exempt climate change and pandemic relief from senseless paygo rules. Democrats delivered for the people. Republicans now want a package that works for the wealthiest few. Vote ``no.''
